---
number: 10
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Why do you stand far off, Yahweh?
Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> In arrogance, the wicked hunt down the weak.
They are caught in the schemes that they devise.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For the wicked boasts of his heart’s cravings.
He blesses the greedy and condemns Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> The wicked, in the pride of his face,
has no room in his thoughts for God.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> His ways are prosperous at all times.
He is arrogant, and your laws are far from his sight.
As for all his adversaries, he sneers at them.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He says in his heart, “I shall not be shaken.
For generations I shall have no trouble.”

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression.
Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He lies in wait near the villages.
From ambushes, he murders the innocent.
His eyes are secretly set against the helpless.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush.
He lies in wait to catch the helpless.
He catches the helpless when he draws him in his net.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The helpless are crushed.
They collapse.
They fall under his strength.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> He says in his heart, “God has forgotten.
He hides his face.
He will never see it.”


<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Arise, Yahweh!
God, lift up your hand!
Don’t forget the helpless.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Why does the wicked person condemn God,
and say in his heart, “God won’t call me into account?”

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> But you do see trouble and grief.
You consider it to take it into your hand.
You help the victim and the fatherless.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Break the arm of the wicked.
As for the evil man, seek out his wickedness until you find none.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Yahweh is King forever and ever!
The nations will perish out of his land.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble.
You will prepare their heart.
You will cause your ear to hear,

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> to judge the fatherless and the oppressed,
that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.
