---
number: 102
title: "A Prayer of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed and pours out his complaint before Yahweh."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear my prayer, Yahweh!
Let my cry come to you.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress.
Turn your ear to me.
Answer me quickly in the day when I call.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For my days consume away like smoke.
My bones are burned as a torch.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> My heart is blighted like grass, and withered,
for I forget to eat my bread.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> By reason of the voice of my groaning,
my bones stick to my skin.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I am like a pelican of the wilderness.
I have become as an owl of the waste places.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> My enemies reproach me all day.
Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For I have eaten ashes like bread,
and mixed my drink with tears,

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> because of your indignation and your wrath;
for you have taken me up and thrown me away.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> My days are like a long shadow.
I have withered like grass.


<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> But you, Yahweh, will remain forever;
your renown endures to all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> You will arise and have mercy on Zion;
for it is time to have pity on her.
Yes, the set time has come.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For your servants take pleasure in her stones,
and have pity on her dust.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> So the nations will fear Yahweh’s name,
all the kings of the earth your glory.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For Yahweh has built up Zion.
He has appeared in his glory.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He has responded to the prayer of the destitute,
and has not despised their prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> This will be written for the generation to come.
A people which will be created will praise Yah.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary.
From heaven, Yahweh saw the earth;

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> to hear the groans of the prisoner;
to free those who are condemned to death;

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> that men may declare Yahweh’s name in Zion,
and his praise in Jerusalem;

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> when the peoples are gathered together,
the kingdoms, to serve Yahweh.


<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> He weakened my strength along the course.
He shortened my days.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> I said, “My God, don’t take me away in the middle of my days.
Your years are throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth.
The heavens are the work of your hands.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> They will perish, but you will endure.
Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment.
You will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> But you are the same.
Your years will have no end.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> The children of your servants will continue.
Their offspring will be established before you.”
