---
number: 103
title: "By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise Yahweh, my soul!
All that is within me, praise his holy name!

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Praise Yahweh, my soul,
and don’t forget all his benefits,

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> who forgives all your sins,
who heals all your diseases,

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> who redeems your life from destruction,
who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> who satisfies your desire with good things,
so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Yahweh executes righteous acts,
and justice for all who are oppressed.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He made known his ways to Moses,
his deeds to the children of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Yahweh is merciful and gracious,
slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He will not always accuse;
neither will he stay angry forever.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He has not dealt with us according to our sins,
nor repaid us for our iniquities.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For as the heavens are high above the earth,
so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> As far as the east is from the west,
so far has he removed our transgressions from us.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Like a father has compassion on his children,
so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For he knows how we are made.
He remembers that we are dust.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> As for man, his days are like grass.
As a flower of the field, so he flourishes.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For the wind passes over it, and it is gone.
Its place remembers it no more.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> But Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him,
his righteousness to children’s children,

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> to those who keep his covenant,
to those who remember to obey his precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens.
His kingdom rules over all.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Praise Yahweh, you angels of his,
who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word,
obeying the voice of his word.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his,
you servants of his, who do his pleasure.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Praise Yahweh, all you works of his,
in all places of his dominion.
Praise Yahweh, my soul!
