---
number: 104
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Bless Yahweh, my soul.
Yahweh, my God, you are very great.
You are clothed with honor and majesty.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> He covers himself with light as with a garment.
He stretches out the heavens like a curtain.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> He lays the beams of his rooms in the waters.
He makes the clouds his chariot.
He walks on the wings of the wind.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He makes his messengers winds,
and his servants flames of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> He laid the foundations of the earth,
that it should not be moved forever.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> You covered it with the deep as with a cloak.
The waters stood above the mountains.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> At your rebuke they fled.
At the voice of your thunder they hurried away.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The mountains rose,
the valleys sank down,
to the place which you had assigned to them.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> You have set a boundary that they may not pass over,
that they don’t turn again to cover the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He sends springs into the valleys.
They run among the mountains.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They give drink to every animal of the field.
The wild donkeys quench their thirst.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The birds of the sky nest by them.
They sing among the branches.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He waters the mountains from his rooms.
The earth is filled with the fruit of your works.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He causes the grass to grow for the livestock,
and plants for man to cultivate,
that he may produce food out of the earth:

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> wine that makes the heart of man glad,
oil to make his face to shine,
and bread that strengthens man’s heart.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Yahweh’s trees are well watered,
the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> where the birds make their nests.
The stork makes its home in the cypress trees.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The high mountains are for the wild goats.
The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He appointed the moon for seasons.
The sun knows when to set.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> You make darkness, and it is night,
in which all the animals of the forest prowl.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> The young lions roar after their prey,
and seek their food from God.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The sun rises, and they steal away,
and lie down in their dens.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Man goes out to his work,
to his labor until the evening.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Yahweh, how many are your works!
In wisdom, you have made them all.
The earth is full of your riches.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> There is the sea, great and wide,
in which are innumerable living things,
both small and large animals.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> There the ships go,
and leviathan, whom you formed to play there.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> These all wait for you,
that you may give them their food in due season.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> You give to them; they gather.
You open your hand; they are satisfied with good.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> You hide your face; they are troubled.
You take away their breath; they die and return to the dust.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> You send out your Spirit and they are created.
You renew the face of the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> Let Yahweh’s glory endure forever.
Let Yahweh rejoice in his works.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> He looks at the earth, and it trembles.
He touches the mountains, and they smoke.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> I will sing to Yahweh as long as I live.
I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Let my meditation be sweet to him.
I will rejoice in Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Let sinners be consumed out of the earth.
Let the wicked be no more.
Bless Yahweh, my soul.
Praise Yah!
