---
number: 105
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name!
Make his doings known among the peoples.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Sing to him, sing praises to him!
Tell of all his marvelous works.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Glory in his holy name.
Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Seek Yahweh and his strength.
Seek his face forever more.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Remember his marvelous works that he has done:
his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> you offspring of Abraham, his servant,
you children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He is Yahweh, our God.
His judgments are in all the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He has remembered his covenant forever,
the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> the covenant which he made with Abraham,
his oath to Isaac,

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> and confirmed it to Jacob for a statute;
to Israel for an everlasting covenant,

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan,
the lot of your inheritance,”

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> when they were but a few men in number,
yes, very few, and foreigners in it.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> They went about from nation to nation,
from one kingdom to another people.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He allowed no one to do them wrong.
Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> “Don’t touch my anointed ones!
Do my prophets no harm!”

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He called for a famine on the land.
He destroyed the food supplies.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He sent a man before them.
Joseph was sold for a slave.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They bruised his feet with shackles.
His neck was locked in irons,

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> until the time that his word happened,
and Yahweh’s word proved him true.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> The king sent and freed him,
even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> He made him lord of his house,
and ruler of all of his possessions,

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> to discipline his princes at his pleasure,
and to teach his elders wisdom.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Israel also came into Egypt.
Jacob lived in the land of Ham.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> He increased his people greatly,
and made them stronger than their adversaries.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> He turned their heart to hate his people,
to conspire against his servants.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> He sent Moses, his servant,
and Aaron, whom he had chosen.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> They performed miracles among them,
and wonders in the land of Ham.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> He sent darkness, and made it dark.
They didn’t rebel against his words.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> He turned their waters into blood,
and killed their fish.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Their land swarmed with frogs,
even in the rooms of their kings.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> He spoke, and swarms of flies came,
and lice in all their borders.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> He gave them hail for rain,
with lightning in their land.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He struck their vines and also their fig trees,
and shattered the trees of their country.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> He spoke, and the locusts came
with the grasshoppers, without number,

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> ate up every plant in their land,
and ate up the fruit of their ground.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> He struck also all the firstborn in their land,
the first fruits of all their manhood.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> He brought them out with silver and gold.
There was not one feeble person among his tribes.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> Egypt was glad when they departed,
for the fear of them had fallen on them.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> He spread a cloud for a covering,
fire to give light in the night.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> They asked, and he brought quails,
and satisfied them with the bread of the sky.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> He opened the rock, and waters gushed out.
They ran as a river in the dry places.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> For he remembered his holy word,
and Abraham, his servant.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> He brought his people out with joy,
his chosen with singing.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> He gave them the lands of the nations.
They took the labor of the peoples in possession,

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> that they might keep his statutes,
and observe his laws.
Praise Yah!
