---
number: 106
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise Yahweh!
Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
for his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Who can utter the mighty acts of Yahweh,
or fully declare all his praise?

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Blessed are those who keep justice.
Blessed is one who does what is right at all times.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Remember me, Yahweh, with the favor that you show to your people.
Visit me with your salvation,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> that I may see the prosperity of your chosen,
that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation,
that I may glory with your inheritance.


<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> We have sinned with our fathers.
We have committed iniquity.
We have done wickedly.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Our fathers didn’t understand your wonders in Egypt.
They didn’t remember the multitude of your loving kindnesses,
but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake,
that he might make his mighty power known.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up;
so he led them through the depths, as through a desert.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He saved them from the hand of him who hated them,
and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The waters covered their adversaries.
There was not one of them left.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Then they believed his words.
They sang his praise.


<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> They soon forgot his works.
They didn’t wait for his counsel,

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> but gave in to craving in the desert,
and tested God in the wasteland.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He gave them their request,
but sent leanness into their soul.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> They envied Moses also in the camp,
and Aaron, Yahweh’s saint.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan,
and covered the company of Abiram.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> A fire was kindled in their company.
The flame burned up the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> They made a calf in Horeb,
and worshiped a molten image.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Thus they exchanged their glory
for an image of a bull that eats grass.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They forgot God, their Savior,
who had done great things in Egypt,

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> wondrous works in the land of Ham,
and awesome things by the Red Sea.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Therefore he said that he would destroy them,
had Moses, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach,
to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn’t destroy them.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Yes, they despised the pleasant land.
They didn’t believe his word,

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> but murmured in their tents,
and didn’t listen to Yahweh’s voice.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Therefore he swore to them
that he would overthrow them in the wilderness,

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> that he would overthrow their offspring among the nations,
and scatter them in the lands.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> They joined themselves also to Baal Peor,
and ate the sacrifices of the dead.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds.
The plague broke in on them.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Then Phinehas stood up and executed judgment,
so the plague was stopped.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> That was credited to him for righteousness,
for all generations to come.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> They angered him also at the waters of Meribah,
so that Moses was troubled for their sakes;

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> because they were rebellious against his spirit,
he spoke rashly with his lips.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> They didn’t destroy the peoples,
as Yahweh commanded them,

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> but mixed themselves with the nations,
and learned their works.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> They served their idols,
which became a snare to them.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> They shed innocent blood,
even the blood of their sons and of their daughters,
whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan.
The land was polluted with blood.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Thus they were defiled with their works,
and prostituted themselves in their deeds.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Therefore Yahweh burned with anger against his people.
He abhorred his inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> He gave them into the hand of the nations.
Those who hated them ruled over them.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> Their enemies also oppressed them.
They were brought into subjection under their hand.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> He rescued them many times,
but they were rebellious in their counsel,
and were brought low in their iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> Nevertheless he regarded their distress,
when he heard their cry.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> He remembered for them his covenant,
and repented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> He made them also to be pitied
by all those who carried them captive.


<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> Save us, Yahweh, our God,
gather us from among the nations,
to give thanks to your holy name,
to triumph in your praise!


<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,
from everlasting even to everlasting!
Let all the people say, “Amen.”
Praise Yah!
