---
number: 107
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
for his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so,
whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> And gathered out of the lands,
from the east and from the west,
from the north and from the south.


<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way.
They found no city to live in.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Hungry and thirsty,
their soul fainted in them.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,
and he delivered them out of their distresses,

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> he led them also by a straight way,
that they might go to a city to live in.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,
for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!


<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For he satisfies the longing soul.
He fills the hungry soul with good.


<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death,
being bound in affliction and iron,

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> because they rebelled against the words of God,
and condemned the counsel of the Most High.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Therefore he brought down their heart with labor.
They fell down, and there was no one to help.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,
and he saved them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,
and broke away their chains.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,
for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!


<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For he has broken the gates of bronze,
and cut through bars of iron.


<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience,
and because of their iniquities.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Their soul abhors all kinds of food.
They draw near to the gates of death.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,
he saves them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He sends his word, and heals them,
and delivers them from their graves.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,
for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!


<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving,
and declare his deeds with singing.


<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Those who go down to the sea in ships,
who do business in great waters;

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> These see Yahweh’s deeds,
and his wonders in the deep.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> For he commands, and raises the stormy wind,
which lifts up its waves.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> They mount up to the sky; they go down again to the depths.
Their soul melts away because of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man,
and are at their wits’ end.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,
and he brings them out of their distress.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> He makes the storm a calm,
so that its waves are still.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Then they are glad because it is calm,
so he brings them to their desired haven.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,
for his wonderful deeds for the children of men!


<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people,
and praise him in the seat of the elders.


<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He turns rivers into a desert,
water springs into a thirsty ground,

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> and a fruitful land into a salt waste,
for the wickedness of those who dwell in it.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> He turns a desert into a pool of water,
and a dry land into water springs.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> There he makes the hungry live,
that they may prepare a city to live in,

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> sow fields, plant vineyards,
and reap the fruits of increase.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly.
He doesn’t allow their livestock to decrease.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Again, they are diminished and bowed down
through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> He pours contempt on princes,
and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction,
and increases their families like a flock.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> The upright will see it, and be glad.
All the wicked will shut their mouths.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things.
They will consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh.
