---
number: 109
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> God of my praise, don’t remain silent,

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me.
They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> They have also surrounded me with words of hatred,
and fought against me without a cause.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> In return for my love, they are my adversaries;
but I am in prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They have rewarded me evil for good,
and hatred for my love.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Set a wicked man over him.
Let an adversary stand at his right hand.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> When he is judged, let him come out guilty.
Let his prayer be turned into sin.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let his days be few.
Let another take his office.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Let his children be fatherless,
and his wife a widow.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Let his children be wandering beggars.
Let them be sought from their ruins.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Let the creditor seize all that he has.
Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Let there be no one to extend kindness to him,
neither let there be anyone to have pity on his fatherless children.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Let his posterity be cut off.
In the generation following let their name be blotted out.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh.
Don’t let the sin of his mother be blotted out.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them be before Yahweh continually,
that he may cut off their memory from the earth;

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> because he didn’t remember to show kindness,
but persecuted the poor and needy man,
the broken in heart, to kill them.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him.
He didn’t delight in blessing, and it was far from him.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment.
It came into his inward parts like water,
like oil into his bones.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself,
for the belt that is always around him.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh,
of those who speak evil against my soul.


<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> But deal with me, Yahweh the Lord, for your name’s sake,
because your loving kindness is good, deliver me;

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> for I am poor and needy.
My heart is wounded within me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> I fade away like an evening shadow.
I am shaken off like a locust.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> My knees are weak through fasting.
My body is thin and lacks fat.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I have also become a reproach to them.
When they see me, they shake their head.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Help me, Yahweh, my God.
Save me according to your loving kindness;

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> that they may know that this is your hand;
that you, Yahweh, have done it.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> They may curse, but you bless.
When they arise, they will be shamed,
but your servant shall rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor.
Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth.
Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> For he will stand at the right hand of the needy,
to save him from those who judge his soul.
