---
number: 115
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Not to us, Yahweh, not to us,
but to your name give glory,
for your loving kindness, and for your truth’s sake.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Why should the nations say,
“Where is their God, now?”

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But our God is in the heavens.
He does whatever he pleases.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Their idols are silver and gold,
the work of men’s hands.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They have mouths, but they don’t speak.
They have eyes, but they don’t see.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They have ears, but they don’t hear.
They have noses, but they don’t smell.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They have hands, but they don’t feel.
They have feet, but they don’t walk,
neither do they speak through their throat.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Those who make them will be like them;
yes, everyone who trusts in them.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Israel, trust in Yahweh!
He is their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> House of Aaron, trust in Yahweh!
He is their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> You who fear Yahweh, trust in Yahweh!
He is their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Yahweh remembers us. He will bless us.
He will bless the house of Israel.
He will bless the house of Aaron.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He will bless those who fear Yahweh,
both small and great.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> May Yahweh increase you more and more,
you and your children.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Blessed are you by Yahweh,
who made heaven and earth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The heavens are Yahweh’s heavens,
but he has given the earth to the children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The dead don’t praise Yah,
neither any who go down into silence;

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> but we will bless Yah,
from this time forward and forever more.
Praise Yah!
