---
number: 116
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I love Yahweh, because he listens to my voice,
and my cries for mercy.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Because he has turned his ear to me,
therefore I will call on him as long as I live.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> The cords of death surrounded me,
the pains of Sheol got a hold of me.
I found trouble and sorrow.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Then I called on Yahweh’s name:
“Yahweh, I beg you, deliver my soul.”

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Yahweh is Gracious and righteous.
Yes, our God is merciful.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Yahweh preserves the simple.
I was brought low, and he saved me.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Return to your rest, my soul,
for Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> For you have delivered my soul from death,
my eyes from tears,
and my feet from falling.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will walk before Yahweh in the land of the living.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I believed, therefore I said,
“I was greatly afflicted.”

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I said in my haste,
“All people are liars.”

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> What will I give to Yahweh for all his benefits toward me?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> I will take the cup of salvation, and call on Yahweh’s name.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I will pay my vows to Yahweh,
yes, in the presence of all his people.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Precious in Yahweh’s sight is the death of his saints.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Yahweh, truly I am your servant.
I am your servant, the son of your servant girl.
You have freed me from my chains.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving,
and will call on Yahweh’s name.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> I will pay my vows to Yahweh,
yes, in the presence of all his people,

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> in the courts of Yahweh’s house,
in the middle of you, Jerusalem.
Praise Yah!
