---
number: 118
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
for his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let Israel now say
that his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Let the house of Aaron now say
that his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Now let those who fear Yahweh say
that his loving kindness endures forever.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Out of my distress, I called on Yah.
Yah answered me with freedom.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Yahweh is on my side. I will not be afraid.
What can man do to me?

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Yahweh is on my side among those who help me.
Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,
than to put confidence in man.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,
than to put confidence in princes.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All the nations surrounded me,
but in Yahweh’s name, I cut them off.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me.
In Yahweh’s name I indeed cut them off.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They surrounded me like bees.
They are quenched like the burning thorns.
In Yahweh’s name I cut them off.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> You pushed me back hard, to make me fall,
but Yahweh helped me.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Yah is my strength and song.
He has become my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous.
“The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The right hand of Yahweh is exalted!
The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly!”

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will not die, but live,
and declare Yah’s works.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Yah has punished me severely,
but he has not given me over to death.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Open to me the gates of righteousness.
I will enter into them.
I will give thanks to Yah.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> This is the gate of Yahweh;
the righteous will enter into it.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me,
and have become my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The stone which the builders rejected
has become the cornerstone.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> This is Yahweh’s doing.
It is marvelous in our eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> This is the day that Yahweh has made.
We will rejoice and be glad in it!

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Save us now, we beg you, Yahweh!
Yahweh, we beg you, send prosperity now.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Blessed is he who comes in Yahweh’s name!
We have blessed you out of Yahweh’s house.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Yahweh is God, and he has given us light.
Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> You are my God, and I will give thanks to you.
You are my God, I will exalt you.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,
for his loving kindness endures forever.
