---
number: 132
title: "A Song of Ascents."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, remember David and all his affliction,

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> how he swore to Yahweh,
and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> “Surely I will not come into the structure of my house,
nor go up into my bed;

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I will not give sleep to my eyes,
or slumber to my eyelids;

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> until I find out a place for Yahweh,
a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob.”

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah.
We found it in the field of Jaar:

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> “We will go into his dwelling place.
We will worship at his footstool.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Arise, Yahweh, into your resting place,
you, and the ark of your strength.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Let your priests be clothed with righteousness.
Let your saints shout for joy!”

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For your servant David’s sake,
don’t turn away the face of your anointed one.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Yahweh has sworn to David in truth.
He will not turn from it:
“I will set the fruit of your body on your throne.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If your children will keep my covenant,
my testimony that I will teach them,
their children also will sit on your throne forever more.”

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For Yahweh has chosen Zion.
He has desired it for his habitation.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> “This is my resting place forever.
I will live here, for I have desired it.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I will abundantly bless her provision.
I will satisfy her poor with bread.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will also clothe her priests with salvation.
Her saints will shout aloud for joy.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will make the horn of David to bud there.
I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> I will clothe his enemies with shame,
but on himself, his crown will shine.”
