---
number: 135
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise Yah!
Praise Yahweh’s name!
Praise him, you servants of Yahweh,

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> you who stand in Yahweh’s house,
in the courts of our God’s house.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Praise Yah, for Yahweh is good.
Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself,
Israel for his own possession.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For I know that Yahweh is great,
that our Lord is above all gods.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Whatever Yahweh pleased, that he has done,
in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth.
He makes lightnings with the rain.
He brings the wind out of his treasuries.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He struck the firstborn of Egypt,
both of man and animal.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He sent signs and wonders into the middle of you, Egypt,
on Pharaoh, and on all his servants.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He struck many nations,
and killed mighty kings,

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Sihon king of the Amorites,
Og king of Bashan,
and all the kingdoms of Canaan,

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> and gave their land for a heritage,
a heritage to Israel, his people.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Your name, Yahweh, endures forever;
your renown, Yahweh, throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For Yahweh will judge his people
and have compassion on his servants.


<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The idols of the nations are silver and gold,
the work of men’s hands.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> They have mouths, but they can’t speak.
They have eyes, but they can’t see.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> They have ears, but they can’t hear,
neither is there any breath in their mouths.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Those who make them will be like them,
yes, everyone who trusts in them.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> House of Israel, praise Yahweh!
House of Aaron, praise Yahweh!

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> House of Levi, praise Yahweh!
You who fear Yahweh, praise Yahweh!

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Blessed be Yahweh from Zion,
who dwells at Jerusalem.
Praise Yah!
