---
number: 139
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, you have searched me,
and you know me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> You know my sitting down and my rising up.
You perceive my thoughts from afar.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> You search out my path and my lying down,
and are acquainted with all my ways.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For there is not a word on my tongue,
but, behold, Yahweh, you know it altogether.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You hem me in behind and before.
You laid your hand on me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> This knowledge is beyond me.
It’s lofty.
I can’t attain it.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Where could I go from your Spirit?
Or where could I flee from your presence?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> If I ascend up into heaven, you are there.
If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there!

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> If I take the wings of the dawn,
and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea,

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> even there your hand will lead me,
and your right hand will hold me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> If I say, “Surely the darkness will overwhelm me.
The light around me will be night,”

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> even the darkness doesn’t hide from you,
but the night shines as the day.
The darkness is like light to you.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For you formed my inmost being.
You knit me together in my mother’s womb.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I will give thanks to you,
for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Your works are wonderful.
My soul knows that very well.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My frame wasn’t hidden from you,
when I was made in secret,
woven together in the depths of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Your eyes saw my body.
In your book they were all written,
the days that were ordained for me,
when as yet there were none of them.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> How precious to me are your thoughts, God!
How vast is their sum!

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand.
When I wake up, I am still with you.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> If only you, God, would kill the wicked.
Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men!

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> For they speak against you wickedly.
Your enemies take your name in vain.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Yahweh, don’t I hate those who hate you?
Am I not grieved with those who rise up against you?

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I hate them with perfect hatred.
They have become my enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Search me, God, and know my heart.
Try me, and know my thoughts.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> See if there is any wicked way in me,
and lead me in the everlasting way.
