---
number: 144
title: "By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Blessed be Yahweh, my rock,
who teaches my hands to war,
and my fingers to battle:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> my loving kindness, my fortress,
my high tower, my deliverer,
my shield, and he in whom I take refuge,
who subdues my people under me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Yahweh, what is man, that you care for him?
Or the son of man, that you think of him?

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Man is like a breath.
His days are like a shadow that passes away.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Part your heavens, Yahweh, and come down.
Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Throw out lightning, and scatter them.
Send out your arrows, and rout them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Stretch out your hand from above,
rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters,
out of the hands of foreigners,

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> whose mouths speak deceit,
whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will sing a new song to you, God.
On a ten-stringed lyre, I will sing praises to you.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> You are he who gives salvation to kings,
who rescues David, his servant, from the deadly sword.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners,
whose mouths speak deceit,
whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.


<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Then our sons will be like well-nurtured plants,
our daughters like pillars carved to adorn a palace.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision.
Our sheep produce thousands and ten thousands in our fields.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Our oxen will pull heavy loads.
There is no breaking in, and no going away,
and no outcry in our streets.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Happy are the people who are in such a situation.
Happy are the people whose God is Yahweh.
