---
number: 145
title: "A praise psalm by David.* This is an acrostic psalm, with every verse (including the second half of verse 13) starting with a consecutive letter of the Hebrew alphabet."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will exalt you, my God, the King.
I will praise your name forever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Every day I will praise you.
I will extol your name forever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised!
His greatness is unsearchable.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> One generation will commend your works to another,
and will declare your mighty acts.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> I will meditate on the glorious majesty of your honor,
on your wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Men will speak of the might of your awesome acts.
I will declare your greatness.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They will utter the memory of your great goodness,
and will sing of your righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Yahweh is gracious, merciful,
slow to anger, and of great loving kindness.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Yahweh is good to all.
His tender mercies are over all his works.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All your works will give thanks to you, Yahweh.
Your saints will extol you.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They will speak of the glory of your kingdom,
and talk about your power,

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts,
the glory of the majesty of his kingdom.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom.
Your dominion endures throughout all generations.
Yahweh is faithful in all his words,
and loving in all his deeds.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Yahweh upholds all who fall,
and raises up all those who are bowed down.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The eyes of all wait for you.
You give them their food in due season.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> You open your hand,
and satisfy the desire of every living thing.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Yahweh is righteous in all his ways,
and gracious in all his works.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Yahweh is near to all those who call on him,
to all who call on him in truth.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him.
He also will hear their cry, and will save them.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Yahweh preserves all those who love him,
but he will destroy all the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh.
Let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.
