---
number: 147
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise Yah,
for it is good to sing praises to our God;
for it is pleasant and fitting to praise him.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Yahweh builds up Jerusalem.
He gathers together the outcasts of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> He heals the broken in heart,
and binds up their wounds.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He counts the number of the stars.
He calls them all by their names.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Great is our Lord, and mighty in power.
His understanding is infinite.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Yahweh upholds the humble.
He brings the wicked down to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving.
Sing praises on the harp to our God,

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> who covers the sky with clouds,
who prepares rain for the earth,
who makes grass grow on the mountains.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He provides food for the livestock,
and for the young ravens when they call.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He doesn’t delight in the strength of the horse.
He takes no pleasure in the legs of a man.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him,
in those who hope in his loving kindness.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem!
Praise your God, Zion!

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For he has strengthened the bars of your gates.
He has blessed your children within you.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He makes peace in your borders.
He fills you with the finest of the wheat.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He sends out his commandment to the earth.
His word runs very swiftly.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He gives snow like wool,
and scatters frost like ashes.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He hurls down his hail like pebbles.
Who can stand before his cold?

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> He sends out his word, and melts them.
He causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He shows his word to Jacob,
his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He has not done this for just any nation.
They don’t know his ordinances.
Praise Yah!
