---
number: 17
title: "A Prayer by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear, Yahweh, my righteous plea;
Give ear to my prayer, that doesn’t go out of deceitful lips.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let my sentence come out of your presence.
Let your eyes look on equity.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> You have proved my heart.
You have visited me in the night.
You have tried me, and found nothing.
I have resolved that my mouth shall not disobey.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> As for the deeds of men, by the word of your lips,
I have kept myself from the ways of the violent.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> My steps have held fast to your paths.
My feet have not slipped.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I have called on you, for you will answer me, God.
Turn your ear to me.
Hear my speech.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Show your marvelous loving kindness,
you who save those who take refuge by your right hand from their enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Keep me as the apple of your eye.
Hide me under the shadow of your wings,

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> from the wicked who oppress me,
my deadly enemies, who surround me.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> They close up their callous hearts.
With their mouth they speak proudly.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They have now surrounded us in our steps.
They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey,
as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Arise, Yahweh, confront him.
Cast him down.
Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword;

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> from men by your hand, Yahweh,
from men of the world, whose portion is in this life.
You fill the belly of your cherished ones.
Your sons have plenty,
and they store up wealth for their children.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> As for me, I shall see your face in righteousness.
I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing your form.
