---
number: 18
title: "For the Chief Musician. By David the servant of Yahweh, who spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul. He said,"
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I love you, Yahweh, my strength.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer;
my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge;
my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised;
and I am saved from my enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> The cords of death surrounded me.
The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> The cords of Sheol were around me.
The snares of death came on me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> In my distress I called on Yahweh,
and cried to my God.
He heard my voice out of his temple.
My cry before him came into his ears.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Then the earth shook and trembled.
The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken,
because he was angry.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Smoke went out of his nostrils.
Consuming fire came out of his mouth.
Coals were kindled by it.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He bowed the heavens also, and came down.
Thick darkness was under his feet.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He rode on a cherub, and flew.
Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him,
darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed,
hailstones and coals of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Yahweh also thundered in the sky.
The Most High uttered his voice:
hailstones and coals of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He sent out his arrows, and scattered them;
Yes, great lightning bolts, and routed them.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Then the channels of waters appeared.
The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh,
at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He sent from on high.
He took me.
He drew me out of many waters.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He delivered me from my strong enemy,
from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They came on me in the day of my calamity,
but Yahweh was my support.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He brought me out also into a large place.
He delivered me, because he delighted in me.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness.
According to the cleanness of my hands, he has recompensed me.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> For I have kept the ways of Yahweh,
and have not wickedly departed from my God.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> For all his ordinances were before me.
I didn’t put away his statutes from me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> I was also blameless with him.
I kept myself from my iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness,
according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> With the merciful you will show yourself merciful.
With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> With the pure, you will show yourself pure.
With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> For you will save the afflicted people,
but the arrogant eyes you will bring down.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For you will light my lamp, Yahweh.
My God will light up my darkness.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> For by you, I advance through a troop.
By my God, I leap over a wall.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> As for God, his way is perfect.
Yahweh’s word is tried.
He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> For who is God, except Yahweh?
Who is a rock, besides our God,

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect?

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He makes my feet like deer’s feet,
and sets me on my high places.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> He teaches my hands to war,
so that my arms bend a bow of bronze.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> You have also given me the shield of your salvation.
Your right hand sustains me.
Your gentleness has made me great.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> You have enlarged my steps under me,
My feet have not slipped.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them.
I won’t turn away until they are consumed.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise.
They shall fall under my feet.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> For you have armed me with strength to the battle.
You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me,
that I might cut off those who hate me.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> They cried, but there was no one to save;
even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind.
I cast them out as the mire of the streets.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> You have delivered me from the strivings of the people.
You have made me the head of the nations.
A people whom I have not known shall serve me.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me.
The foreigners shall submit themselves to me.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> The foreigners shall fade away,
and shall come trembling out of their strongholds.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> Yahweh lives! Blessed be my rock.
Exalted be the God of my salvation,

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> even the God who executes vengeance for me,
and subdues peoples under me.

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> He rescues me from my enemies.
Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me.
You deliver me from the violent man.

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations,
and will sing praises to your name.

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> He gives great deliverance to his king,
and shows loving kindness to his anointed,
to David and to his offspring, forever more.
