---
number: 19
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The heavens declare the glory of God.
The expanse shows his handiwork.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Day after day they pour out speech,
and night after night they display knowledge.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> There is no speech nor language,
where their voice is not heard.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Their voice has gone out through all the earth,
their words to the end of the world.
In them he has set a tent for the sun,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> which is as a bridegroom coming out of his room,
like a strong man rejoicing to run his course.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> His going out is from the end of the heavens,
his circuit to its ends.
There is nothing hidden from its heat.


<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Yahweh’s law is perfect, restoring the soul.
Yahweh’s covenant is sure, making wise the simple.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Yahweh’s precepts are right, rejoicing the heart.
Yahweh’s commandment is pure, enlightening the eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever.
Yahweh’s ordinances are true, and righteous altogether.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> They are more to be desired than gold, yes, than much fine gold,
sweeter also than honey and the extract of the honeycomb.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Moreover your servant is warned by them.
In keeping them there is great reward.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Who can discern his errors?
Forgive me from hidden errors.


<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins.
Let them not have dominion over me.
Then I will be upright.
I will be blameless and innocent of great transgression.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart
be acceptable in your sight,
Yahweh, my rock, and my redeemer.
