---
number: 22
title: "For the Chief Musician; set to “The Doe of the Morning.” A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
Why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> My God, I cry in the daytime, but you don’t answer;
in the night season, and am not silent.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But you are holy,
you who inhabit the praises of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Our fathers trusted in you.
They trusted, and you delivered them.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They cried to you, and were delivered.
They trusted in you, and were not disappointed.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> But I am a worm, and no man;
a reproach of men, and despised by the people.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> All those who see me mock me.
They insult me with their lips. They shake their heads, saying,

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> “He trusts in Yahweh.
Let him deliver him.
Let him rescue him, since he delights in him.”

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> But you brought me out of the womb.
You made me trust while at my mother’s breasts.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I was thrown on you from my mother’s womb.
You are my God since my mother bore me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Don’t be far from me, for trouble is near.
For there is no one to help.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Many bulls have surrounded me.
Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> They open their mouths wide against me,
lions tearing prey and roaring.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I am poured out like water.
All my bones are out of joint.
My heart is like wax.
It is melted within me.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My strength is dried up like a potsherd.
My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth.
You have brought me into the dust of death.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For dogs have surrounded me.
A company of evildoers have enclosed me.
They have pierced my hands and feet.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I can count all of my bones.
They look and stare at me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They divide my garments among them.
They cast lots for my clothing.


<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> But don’t be far off, Yahweh.
You are my help. Hurry to help me!

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Deliver my soul from the sword,
my precious life from the power of the dog.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Save me from the lion’s mouth!
Yes, you have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen.


<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I will declare your name to my brothers.
Among the assembly, I will praise you.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> You who fear Yahweh, praise him!
All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him!
Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel!

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,
Neither has he hidden his face from him;
but when he cried to him, he heard.


<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> My praise of you comes in the great assembly.
I will pay my vows before those who fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> The humble shall eat and be satisfied.
They shall praise Yahweh who seek after him.
Let your hearts live forever.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Yahweh.
All the relatives of the nations shall worship before you.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For the kingdom is Yahweh’s.
He is the ruler over the nations.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> All the rich ones of the earth shall eat and worship.
All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him,
even he who can’t keep his soul alive.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Posterity shall serve him.
Future generations shall be told about the Lord.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born,
for he has done it.
