---
number: 25
title: "By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> To you, Yahweh, I lift up my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> My God, I have trusted in you.
Don’t let me be shamed.
Don’t let my enemies triumph over me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Yes, no one who waits for you will be shamed.
They will be shamed who deal treacherously without cause.


<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Show me your ways, Yahweh.
Teach me your paths.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Guide me in your truth, and teach me,
For you are the God of my salvation,
I wait for you all day long.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Yahweh, remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness,
for they are from old times.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Don’t remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions.
Remember me according to your loving kindness,
for your goodness’ sake, Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Good and upright is Yahweh,
therefore he will instruct sinners in the way.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He will guide the humble in justice.
He will teach the humble his way.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth
to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For your name’s sake, Yahweh,
pardon my iniquity, for it is great.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> What man is he who fears Yahweh?
He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> His soul will dwell at ease.
His offspring will inherit the land.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him.
He will show them his covenant.


<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My eyes are ever on Yahweh,
for he will pluck my feet out of the net.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Turn to me, and have mercy on me,
for I am desolate and afflicted.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The troubles of my heart are enlarged.
Oh bring me out of my distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Consider my affliction and my travail.
Forgive all my sins.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Consider my enemies, for they are many.
They hate me with cruel hatred.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Oh keep my soul, and deliver me.
Let me not be disappointed, for I take refuge in you.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me,
for I wait for you.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Redeem Israel, God,
out of all his troubles.
