---
number: 33
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Rejoice in Yahweh, you righteous!
Praise is fitting for the upright.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Give thanks to Yahweh with the lyre.
Sing praises to him with the harp of ten strings.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Sing to him a new song.
Play skillfully with a shout of joy!

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For Yahweh’s word is right.
All his work is done in faithfulness.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> He loves righteousness and justice.
The earth is full of the loving kindness of Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> By Yahweh’s word, the heavens were made:
all their army by the breath of his mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap.
He lays up the deeps in storehouses.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let all the earth fear Yahweh.
Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For he spoke, and it was done.
He commanded, and it stood firm.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Yahweh brings the counsel of the nations to nothing.
He makes the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The counsel of Yahweh stands fast forever,
the thoughts of his heart to all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh,
the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Yahweh looks from heaven.
He sees all the sons of men.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> he who fashions all of their hearts;
and he considers all of their works.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> There is no king saved by the multitude of an army.
A mighty man is not delivered by great strength.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> A horse is a vain thing for safety,
neither does he deliver any by his great power.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Behold, Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him,
on those who hope in his loving kindness,

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> to deliver their soul from death,
to keep them alive in famine.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Our soul has waited for Yahweh.
He is our help and our shield.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> For our heart rejoices in him,
because we have trusted in his holy name.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Let your loving kindness be on us, Yahweh,
since we have hoped in you.
