---
number: 34
title: "By David; when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will bless Yahweh at all times.
His praise will always be in my mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> My soul shall boast in Yahweh.
The humble shall hear of it and be glad.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Oh magnify Yahweh with me.
Let’s exalt his name together.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I sought Yahweh, and he answered me,
and delivered me from all my fears.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They looked to him, and were radiant.
Their faces shall never be covered with shame.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> This poor man cried, and Yahweh heard him,
and saved him out of all his troubles.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Yahweh’s angel encamps around those who fear him,
and delivers them.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Oh taste and see that Yahweh is good.
Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Oh fear Yahweh, you his saints,
for there is no lack with those who fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger,
but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack any good thing.


<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Come, you children, listen to me.
I will teach you the fear of Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Who is someone who desires life,
and loves many days, that he may see good?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Keep your tongue from evil,
and your lips from speaking lies.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Depart from evil, and do good.
Seek peace, and pursue it.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Yahweh’s eyes are toward the righteous.
His ears listen to their cry.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Yahweh’s face is against those who do evil,
to cut off their memory from the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The righteous cry, and Yahweh hears,
and delivers them out of all their troubles.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart,
and saves those who have a crushed spirit.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Many are the afflictions of the righteous,
but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He protects all of his bones.
Not one of them is broken.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Evil shall kill the wicked.
Those who hate the righteous shall be condemned.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants.
None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned.
