---
number: 35
title: "By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Contend, Yahweh, with those who contend with me.
Fight against those who fight against me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Take hold of shield and buckler,
and stand up for my help.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me.
Tell my soul, “I am your salvation.”

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor.
Let those who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Let them be as chaff before the wind,
Yahweh’s angel driving them on.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Let their way be dark and slippery,
Yahweh’s angel pursuing them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For without cause they have hidden their net in a pit for me.
Without cause they have dug a pit for my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let destruction come on him unawares.
Let his net that he has hidden catch himself.
Let him fall into that destruction.


<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> My soul shall be joyful in Yahweh.
It shall rejoice in his salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, who is like you,
who delivers the poor from him who is too strong for him;
yes, the poor and the needy from him who robs him?”

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Unrighteous witnesses rise up.
They ask me about things that I don’t know about.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They reward me evil for good,
to the bereaving of my soul.


<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth.
I afflicted my soul with fasting.
My prayer returned into my own bosom.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother.
I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns his mother.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But in my adversity, they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together.
The attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I didn’t know it.
They tore at me, and didn’t cease.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Like the profane mockers in feasts,
they gnashed their teeth at me.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Lord, how long will you look on?
Rescue my soul from their destruction,
my precious life from the lions.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> I will give you thanks in the great assembly.
I will praise you among many people.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Don’t let those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me;
neither let those who hate me without a cause wink their eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> For they don’t speak peace,
but they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me.
They said, “Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!”

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> You have seen it, Yahweh. Don’t keep silent.
Lord, don’t be far from me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God!
My Lord, contend for me!

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Vindicate me, Yahweh my God, according to your righteousness.
Don’t let them gloat over me.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Don’t let them say in their heart, “Aha! That’s the way we want it!”
Don’t let them say, “We have swallowed him up!”

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Let them be disappointed and confounded together who rejoice at my calamity.
Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me.


<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Let those who favor my righteous cause shout for joy and be glad.
Yes, let them say continually, “May Yahweh be magnified,
who has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant!”

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long.
