---
number: 37
title: "By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Don’t fret because of evildoers,
neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass,
and wither like the green herb.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Trust in Yahweh, and do good.
Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Also delight yourself in Yahweh,
and he will give you the desires of your heart.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Commit your way to Yahweh.
Trust also in him, and he will do this:

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> he will make your righteousness shine out like light,
and your justice as the noon day sun.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Rest in Yahweh, and wait patiently for him.
Don’t fret because of him who prospers in his way,
because of the man who makes wicked plots happen.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath.
Don’t fret; it leads only to evildoing.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For evildoers shall be cut off,
but those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For yet a little while, and the wicked will be no more.
Yes, though you look for his place, he isn’t there.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> But the humble shall inherit the land,
and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The wicked plots against the just,
and gnashes at him with his teeth.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The Lord will laugh at him,
for he sees that his day is coming.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow,
to cast down the poor and needy,
to kill those who are upright on the path.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Their sword shall enter into their own heart.
Their bows shall be broken.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Better is a little that the righteous has,
than the abundance of many wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken,
but Yahweh upholds the righteous.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Yahweh knows the days of the perfect.
Their inheritance shall be forever.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil.
In the days of famine they shall be satisfied.


<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> But the wicked shall perish.
The enemies of Yahweh shall be like the beauty of the fields.
They will vanish—
vanish like smoke.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> The wicked borrow, and don’t pay back,
but the righteous give generously.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land.
Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> A man’s steps are established by Yahweh.
He delights in his way.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Though he stumble, he shall not fall,
for Yahweh holds him up with his hand.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I have been young, and now am old,
yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken,
nor his children begging for bread.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> All day long he deals graciously, and lends.
His offspring is blessed.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Depart from evil, and do good.
Live securely forever.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For Yahweh loves justice,
and doesn’t forsake his saints.
They are preserved forever,
but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> The righteous shall inherit the land,
and live in it forever.


<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> The mouth of the righteous talks of wisdom.
His tongue speaks justice.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> The law of his God is in his heart.
None of his steps shall slide.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> The wicked watch the righteous,
and seek to kill him.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> Yahweh will not leave him in his hand,
nor condemn him when he is judged.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Wait for Yahweh, and keep his way,
and he will exalt you to inherit the land.
When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.


<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> I have seen the wicked in great power,
spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> But he passed away, and behold, he was not.
Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> Mark the perfect man, and see the upright,
for there is a future for the man of peace.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together.
The future of the wicked shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> But the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh.
He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Yahweh helps them and rescues them.
He rescues them from the wicked and saves them,
because they have taken refuge in him.
