---
number: 38
title: "A Psalm by David, for a memorial."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, don’t rebuke me in your wrath,
neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For your arrows have pierced me,
your hand presses hard on me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation,
neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For my iniquities have gone over my head.
As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> My wounds are loathsome and corrupt
because of my foolishness.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I am in pain and bowed down greatly.
I go mourning all day long.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For my waist is filled with burning.
There is no soundness in my flesh.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I am faint and severely bruised.
I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Lord, all my desire is before you.
My groaning is not hidden from you.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> My heart throbs.
My strength fails me.
As for the light of my eyes, it has also left me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague.
My kinsmen stand far away.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They also who seek after my life lay snares.
Those who seek my hurt speak mischievous things,
and meditate deceits all day long.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But I, as a deaf man, don’t hear.
I am as a mute man who doesn’t open his mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Yes, I am as a man who doesn’t hear,
in whose mouth are no reproofs.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> For I hope in you, Yahweh.
You will answer, Lord my God.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For I said, “Don’t let them gloat over me,
or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips.”

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For I am ready to fall.
My pain is continually before me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For I will declare my iniquity.
I will be sorry for my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> But my enemies are vigorous and many.
Those who hate me without reason are numerous.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> They who render evil for good are also adversaries to me,
because I follow what is good.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Don’t forsake me, Yahweh.
My God, don’t be far from me.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Hurry to help me,
Lord, my salvation.
