---
number: 40
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I waited patiently for Yahweh.
He turned to me, and heard my cry.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> He brought me up also out of a horrible pit,
out of the miry clay.
He set my feet on a rock,
and gave me a firm place to stand.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God.
Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust,
and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such as turn away to lies.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Many, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done,
and your thoughts which are toward us.
They can’t be declared back to you.
If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be counted.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Sacrifice and offering you didn’t desire.
You have opened my ears.
You have not required burnt offering and sin offering.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Then I said, “Behold, I have come.
It is written about me in the book in the scroll.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I delight to do your will, my God.
Yes, your law is within my heart.”

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the great assembly.
Behold, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you know.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart.
I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation.
I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Don’t withhold your tender mercies from me, Yahweh.
Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For innumerable evils have surrounded me.
My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up.
They are more than the hairs of my head.
My heart has failed me.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me.
Hurry to help me, Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy it.
Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, “Aha! Aha!”

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you.
Let such as love your salvation say continually, “Let Yahweh be exalted!”

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> But I am poor and needy.
May the Lord think about me.
You are my help and my deliverer.
Don’t delay, my God.
