---
number: 49
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by the sons of Korah."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear this, all you peoples.
Listen, all you inhabitants of the world,

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> both low and high,
rich and poor together.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> My mouth will speak words of wisdom.
My heart will utter understanding.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I will incline my ear to a proverb.
I will solve my riddle on the harp.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Why should I fear in the days of evil,
when iniquity at my heels surrounds me?

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Those who trust in their wealth,
and boast in the multitude of their riches—

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> none of them can by any means redeem his brother,
nor give God a ransom for him.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> For the redemption of their life is costly,
no payment is ever enough,

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> that he should live on forever,
that he should not see corruption.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For he sees that wise men die;
likewise the fool and the senseless perish,
and leave their wealth to others.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever,
and their dwelling places to all generations.
They name their lands after themselves.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> But man, despite his riches, doesn’t endure.
He is like the animals that perish.


<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> This is the destiny of those who are foolish,
and of those who approve their sayings.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> They are appointed as a flock for Sheol.
Death shall be their shepherd.
The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning.
Their beauty shall decay in Sheol,
far from their mansion.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol,
for he will receive me.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Don’t be afraid when a man is made rich,
when the glory of his house is increased;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> for when he dies he will carry nothing away.
His glory won’t descend after him.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Though while he lived he blessed his soul—
and men praise you when you do well for yourself—

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> he shall go to the generation of his fathers.
They shall never see the light.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> A man who has riches without understanding,
is like the animals that perish.
