---
number: 50
title: "A Psalm by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, speaks,
and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty,
God shines out.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Our God comes, and does not keep silent.
A fire devours before him.
It is very stormy around him.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He calls to the heavens above,
to the earth, that he may judge his people:

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> “Gather my saints together to me,
those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The heavens shall declare his righteousness,
for God himself is judge.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> “Hear, my people, and I will speak.
Israel, I will testify against you.
I am God, your God.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I don’t rebuke you for your sacrifices.
Your burnt offerings are continually before me.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I have no need for a bull from your stall,
nor male goats from your pens.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For every animal of the forest is mine,
and the livestock on a thousand hills.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I know all the birds of the mountains.
The wild animals of the field are mine.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If I were hungry, I would not tell you,
for the world is mine, and all that is in it.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Will I eat the meat of bulls,
or drink the blood of goats?

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving.
Pay your vows to the Most High.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Call on me in the day of trouble.
I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”


<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> But to the wicked God says,
“What right do you have to declare my statutes,
that you have taken my covenant on your lips,

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> since you hate instruction,
and throw my words behind you?

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> When you saw a thief, you consented with him,
and have participated with adulterers.


<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> “You give your mouth to evil.
Your tongue frames deceit.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> You sit and speak against your brother.
You slander your own mother’s son.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> You have done these things, and I kept silent.
You thought that I was just like you.
I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes.


<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> “Now consider this, you who forget God,
lest I tear you into pieces, and there be no one to deliver.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me,
and prepares his way so that I will show God’s salvation to him.”
