---
number: 51
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David, when Nathan the prophet came to him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness.
According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity.
Cleanse me from my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For I know my transgressions.
My sin is constantly before me.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Against you, and you only, I have sinned,
and done that which is evil in your sight,
so you may be proved right when you speak,
and justified when you judge.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Behold, I was born in iniquity.
My mother conceived me in sin.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts.
You teach me wisdom in the inmost place.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean.
Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let me hear joy and gladness,
that the bones which you have broken may rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Hide your face from my sins,
and blot out all of my iniquities.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Create in me a clean heart, O God.
Renew a right spirit within me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Don’t throw me from your presence,
and don’t take your Holy Spirit from me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Restore to me the joy of your salvation.
Uphold me with a willing spirit.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Then I will teach transgressors your ways.
Sinners will be converted to you.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation.
My tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Lord, open my lips.
My mouth will declare your praise.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For you don’t delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it.
You have no pleasure in burnt offering.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit.
O God, you will not despise a broken and contrite heart.


<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Do well in your good pleasure to Zion.
Build the walls of Jerusalem.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness,
in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings.
Then they will offer bulls on your altar.
