---
number: 55
title: "For the Chief Musician. On stringed instruments. A contemplation by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Listen to my prayer, God.
Don’t hide yourself from my supplication.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Attend to me, and answer me.
I am restless in my complaint,
and moan

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> because of the voice of the enemy,
because of the oppression of the wicked.
For they bring suffering on me.
In anger they hold a grudge against me.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> My heart is severely pained within me.
The terrors of death have fallen on me.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Fearfulness and trembling have come on me.
Horror has overwhelmed me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I said, “Oh that I had wings like a dove!
Then I would fly away, and be at rest.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Behold, then I would wander far off.
I would lodge in the wilderness.”

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> “I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm.”

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Confuse them, Lord, and confound their language,
for I have seen violence and strife in the city.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Day and night they prowl around on its walls.
Malice and abuse are also within her.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Destructive forces are within her.
Threats and lies don’t depart from her streets.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For it was not an enemy who insulted me,
then I could have endured it.
Neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me,
then I would have hidden myself from him.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But it was you, a man like me,
my companion, and my familiar friend.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> We took sweet fellowship together.
We walked in God’s house with company.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let death come suddenly on them.
Let them go down alive into Sheol.
For wickedness is among them, in their dwelling.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> As for me, I will call on God.
Yahweh will save me.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress.
He will hear my voice.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me,
although there are many who oppose me.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> God, who is enthroned forever,
will hear and answer them.
They never change,
who don’t fear God.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He raises his hands against his friends.
He has violated his covenant.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> His mouth was smooth as butter,
but his heart was war.
His words were softer than oil,
yet they were drawn swords.


<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Cast your burden on Yahweh and he will sustain you.
He will never allow the righteous to be moved.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> But you, God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction.
Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days,
but I will trust in you.
