---
number: 59
title: "For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Do Not Destroy.” A poem by David, when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill him."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Deliver me from my enemies, my God.
Set me on high from those who rise up against me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity.
Save me from the bloodthirsty men.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For, behold, they lie in wait for my soul.
The mighty gather themselves together against me,
not for my disobedience, nor for my sin, Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me.
Rise up, behold, and help me!

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You, Yahweh God of Armies, the God of Israel,
rouse yourself to punish the nations.
Show no mercy to the wicked traitors.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They return at evening, howling like dogs,
and prowl around the city.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Behold, they spew with their mouth.
Swords are in their lips,
“For”, they say, “who hears us?”

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> But you, Yahweh, laugh at them.
You scoff at all the nations.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Oh, my Strength, I watch for you,
for God is my high tower.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> My God will go before me with his loving kindness.
God will let me look at my enemies in triumph.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Don’t kill them, or my people may forget.
Scatter them by your power, and bring them down, Lord our shield.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips,
let them be caught in their pride,
for the curses and lies which they utter.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Consume them in wrath.
Consume them, and they will be no more.
Let them know that God rules in Jacob,
to the ends of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> At evening let them return.
Let them howl like a dog, and go around the city.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> They shall wander up and down for food,
and wait all night if they aren’t satisfied.


<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> But I will sing of your strength.
Yes, I will sing aloud of your loving kindness in the morning.
For you have been my high tower,
a refuge in the day of my distress.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> To you, my strength, I will sing praises.
For God is my high tower, the God of my mercy.
