---
number: 66
title: "For the Chief Musician. A song. A Psalm."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth!

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Sing to the glory of his name!
Offer glory and praise!

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Tell God, “How awesome are your deeds!
Through the greatness of your power, your enemies submit themselves to you.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> All the earth will worship you,
and will sing to you;
they will sing to your name.”

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Come, and see God’s deeds—
awesome work on behalf of the children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He turned the sea into dry land.
They went through the river on foot.
There, we rejoiced in him.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He rules by his might forever.
His eyes watch the nations.
Don’t let the rebellious rise up against him.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Praise our God, you peoples!
Make the sound of his praise heard,

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> who preserves our life among the living,
and doesn’t allow our feet to be moved.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For you, God, have tested us.
You have refined us, as silver is refined.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> You brought us into prison.
You laid a burden on our backs.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> You allowed men to ride over our heads.
We went through fire and through water,
but you brought us to the place of abundance.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> I will come into your temple with burnt offerings.
I will pay my vows to you,

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> which my lips promised,
and my mouth spoke, when I was in distress.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals,
with the offering of rams,
I will offer bulls with goats.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Come and hear, all you who fear God.
I will declare what he has done for my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I cried to him with my mouth.
He was extolled with my tongue.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> If I cherished sin in my heart,
the Lord wouldn’t have listened.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> But most certainly, God has listened.
He has heard the voice of my prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer,
nor his loving kindness from me.
