---
number: 68
title: "For the Chief Musician. A Psalm by David. A song."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Let God arise!
Let his enemies be scattered!
Let them who hate him also flee before him.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> As smoke is driven away,
so drive them away.
As wax melts before the fire,
so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But let the righteous be glad.
Let them rejoice before God.
Yes, let them rejoice with gladness.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Sing to God! Sing praises to his name!
Extol him who rides on the clouds:
to Yah, his name!
Rejoice before him!

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows,
is God in his holy habitation.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> God sets the lonely in families.
He brings out the prisoners with singing,
but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.


<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> God, when you went out before your people,
when you marched through the wilderness...

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The earth trembled.
The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai—
at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> You, God, sent a plentiful rain.
You confirmed your inheritance when it was weary.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Your congregation lived therein.
You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The Lord announced the word.
The ones who proclaim it are a great company.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> “Kings of armies flee! They flee!”
She who waits at home divides the plunder,

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> while you sleep among the camp fires,
the wings of a dove sheathed with silver,
her feathers with shining gold.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> When the Almighty scattered kings in her,
it snowed on Zalmon.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains.
The mountains of Bashan are rugged.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains,
at the mountain where God chooses to reign?
Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands.
The Lord is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> You have ascended on high.
You have led away captives.
You have received gifts among people,
yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there.


<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens,
even the God who is our salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> God is to us a God of deliverance.
To Yahweh, the Lord, belongs escape from death.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> But God will strike through the head of his enemies,
the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The Lord said, “I will bring you again from Bashan,
I will bring you again from the depths of the sea,

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> that you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood,
that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies.”

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> They have seen your processions, God,
even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> The singers went before, the minstrels followed after,
among the ladies playing with tambourines,

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> “Bless God in the congregations,
even the Lord in the assembly of Israel!”

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> There is little Benjamin, their ruler,
the princes of Judah, their council,
the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.


<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Your God has commanded your strength.
Strengthen, God, that which you have done for us.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Because of your temple at Jerusalem,
kings shall bring presents to you.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds,
the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples.
Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver.
Scatter the nations that delight in war.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> Princes shall come out of Egypt.
Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth!
Sing praises to the Lord!

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old;
behold, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Ascribe strength to God!
His excellency is over Israel,
his strength is in the skies.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries.
The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people.
Praise be to God!
