---
number: 69
title: "For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “Lilies.” By David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Save me, God,
for the waters have come up to my neck!

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold.
I have come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I am weary with my crying.
My throat is dry.
My eyes fail looking for my God.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head.
Those who want to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty.
I have to restore what I didn’t take away.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> God, you know my foolishness.
My sins aren’t hidden from you.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Don’t let those who wait for you be shamed through me, Lord Yahweh of Armies.
Don’t let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Because for your sake, I have borne reproach.
Shame has covered my face.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I have become a stranger to my brothers,
an alien to my mother’s children.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For the zeal of your house consumes me.
The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> When I wept and I fasted,
that was to my reproach.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> When I made sackcloth my clothing,
I became a byword to them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Those who sit in the gate talk about me.
I am the song of the drunkards.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But as for me, my prayer is to you, Yahweh, in an acceptable time.
God, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Deliver me out of the mire, and don’t let me sink.
Let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Don’t let the flood waters overwhelm me,
neither let the deep swallow me up.
Don’t let the pit shut its mouth on me.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Answer me, Yahweh, for your loving kindness is good.
According to the multitude of your tender mercies, turn to me.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Don’t hide your face from your servant,
for I am in distress.
Answer me speedily!

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Draw near to my soul and redeem it.
Ransom me because of my enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor.
My adversaries are all before you.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness.
I looked for some to take pity, but there was none;
for comforters, but I found none.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They also gave me poison for my food.
In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Let their table before them become a snare.
May it become a retribution and a trap.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can’t see.
Let their backs be continually bent.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Pour out your indignation on them.
Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Let their habitation be desolate.
Let no one dwell in their tents.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> For they persecute him whom you have wounded.
They tell of the sorrow of those whom you have hurt.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Charge them with crime upon crime.
Don’t let them come into your righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Let them be blotted out of the book of life,
and not be written with the righteous.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> But I am in pain and distress.
Let your salvation, God, protect me.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> I will praise the name of God with a song,
and will magnify him with thanksgiving.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> It will please Yahweh better than an ox,
or a bull that has horns and hoofs.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> The humble have seen it, and are glad.
You who seek after God, let your heart live.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> For Yahweh hears the needy,
and doesn’t despise his captive people.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Let heaven and earth praise him;
the seas, and everything that moves therein!

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah.
They shall settle there, and own it.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> The children also of his servants shall inherit it.
Those who love his name shall dwell therein.
