---
number: 7
title: "A meditation by David, which he sang to Yahweh, concerning the words of Cush, the Benjamite."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, my God, I take refuge in you.
Save me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me,

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> lest they tear apart my soul like a lion,
ripping it in pieces, while there is no one to deliver.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Yahweh, my God, if I have done this,
if there is iniquity in my hands,

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> if I have rewarded evil to him who was at peace with me
(yes, I have delivered him who without cause was my adversary),

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it;
yes, let him tread my life down to the earth,
and lay my glory in the dust.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Arise, Yahweh, in your anger.
Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries.
Awake for me. You have commanded judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Let the congregation of the peoples surround you.
Rule over them on high.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Yahweh administers judgment to the peoples.
Judge me, Yahweh, according to my righteousness,
and to my integrity that is in me.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end,
but establish the righteous;
their minds and hearts are searched by the righteous God.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> My shield is with God,
who saves the upright in heart.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> God is a righteous judge,
yes, a God who has indignation every day.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If a man doesn’t repent, he will sharpen his sword;
he has bent and strung his bow.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He has also prepared for himself the instruments of death.
He makes ready his flaming arrows.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Behold, he travails with iniquity.
Yes, he has conceived mischief,
and brought out falsehood.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He has dug a hole,
and has fallen into the pit which he made.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The trouble he causes shall return to his own head.
His violence shall come down on the crown of his own head.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will give thanks to Yahweh according to his righteousness,
and will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High.
