---
number: 71
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> In you, Yahweh, I take refuge.
Never let me be disappointed.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me.
Turn your ear to me, and save me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go.
Give the command to save me,
for you are my rock and my fortress.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked,
from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For you are my hope, Lord Yahweh,
my confidence from my youth.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I have relied on you from the womb.
You are he who took me out of my mother’s womb.
I will always praise you.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> I am a marvel to many,
but you are my strong refuge.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> My mouth shall be filled with your praise,
with your honor all day long.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Don’t reject me in my old age.
Don’t forsake me when my strength fails.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For my enemies talk about me.
Those who watch for my soul conspire together,

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> saying, “God has forsaken him.
Pursue and take him, for no one will rescue him.”

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> God, don’t be far from me.
My God, hurry to help me.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed.
Let them be covered with disgrace and scorn who want to harm me.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> But I will always hope,
and will add to all of your praise.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My mouth will tell about your righteousness,
and of your salvation all day,
though I don’t know its full measure.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Yahweh.
I will make mention of your righteousness, even of yours alone.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> God, you have taught me from my youth.
Until now, I have declared your wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, God, don’t forsake me,
until I have declared your strength to the next generation,
your might to everyone who is to come.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Your righteousness also, God, reaches to the heavens;
you have done great things.
God, who is like you?

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles,
you will let me live.
You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Increase my honor
and comfort me again.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God.
I sing praises to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> My lips shall shout for joy!
My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you!

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long,
for they are disappointed, and they are confounded,
who want to harm me.
