---
number: 72
title: "By Solomon."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> God, give the king your justice;
your righteousness to the royal son.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> He will judge your people with righteousness,
and your poor with justice.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people.
The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He will judge the poor of the people.
He will save the children of the needy,
and will break the oppressor in pieces.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They shall fear you while the sun endures;
and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He will come down like rain on the mown grass,
as showers that water the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> In his days, the righteous shall flourish,
and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,
from the River to the ends of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him.
His enemies shall lick the dust.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute.
The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Yes, all kings shall fall down before him.
All nations shall serve him.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For he will deliver the needy when he cries;
the poor, who has no helper.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He will have pity on the poor and needy.
He will save the souls of the needy.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence.
Their blood will be precious in his sight.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba.
Men shall pray for him continually.
They shall bless him all day long.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land.
Its fruit sways like Lebanon.
Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> His name endures forever.
His name continues as long as the sun.
Men shall be blessed by him.
All nations will call him blessed.


<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel,
who alone does marvelous deeds.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Blessed be his glorious name forever!
Let the whole earth be filled with his glory!
Amen and amen.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.
