---
number: 73
title: "A Psalm by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Surely God is good to Israel,
to those who are pure in heart.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> But as for me, my feet were almost gone.
My steps had nearly slipped.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For I was envious of the arrogant,
when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For there are no struggles in their death,
but their strength is firm.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They are free from burdens of men,
neither are they plagued like other men.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck.
Violence covers them like a garment.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Their eyes bulge with fat.
Their minds pass the limits of conceit.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They scoff and speak with malice.
In arrogance, they threaten oppression.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> They have set their mouth in the heavens.
Their tongue walks through the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Therefore their people return to them,
and they drink up waters of abundance.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They say, “How does God know?
Is there knowledge in the Most High?”

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Behold, these are the wicked.
Being always at ease, they increase in riches.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain,
and washed my hands in innocence,

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For all day long I have been plagued,
and punished every morning.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> If I had said, “I will speak thus”;
behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> When I tried to understand this,
it was too painful for me,

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> until I entered God’s sanctuary,
and considered their latter end.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Surely you set them in slippery places.
You throw them down to destruction.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> How they are suddenly destroyed!
They are completely swept away with terrors.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> As a dream when one wakes up,
so, Lord, when you awake, you will despise their fantasies.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> For my soul was grieved.
I was embittered in my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I was so senseless and ignorant.
I was a brute beast before you.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Nevertheless, I am continually with you.
You have held my right hand.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> You will guide me with your counsel,
and afterward receive me to glory.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Whom do I have in heaven?
There is no one on earth whom I desire besides you.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> My flesh and my heart fails,
but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> For, behold, those who are far from you shall perish.
You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> But it is good for me to come close to God.
I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge,
that I may tell of all your works.
