---
number: 74
title: "A contemplation by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> God, why have you rejected us forever?
Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old,
which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your inheritance:
Mount Zion, in which you have lived.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins,
all the evil that the enemy has done in the sanctuary.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Your adversaries have roared in the middle of your assembly.
They have set up their standards as signs.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They behaved like men wielding axes,
cutting through a thicket of trees.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They have burned your sanctuary to the ground.
They have profaned the dwelling place of your Name.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They said in their heart, “We will crush them completely.”
They have burned up all the places in the land where God was worshiped.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> We see no miraculous signs.
There is no longer any prophet,
neither is there among us anyone who knows how long.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> How long, God, shall the adversary reproach?
Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand?
Take it from your chest and consume them!


<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Yet God is my King of old,
working salvation throughout the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> You divided the sea by your strength.
You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces.
You gave him as food to people and desert creatures.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> You opened up spring and stream.
You dried up mighty rivers.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The day is yours, the night is also yours.
You have prepared the light and the sun.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> You have set all the boundaries of the earth.
You have made summer and winter.


<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Remember this, that the enemy has mocked you, Yahweh.
Foolish people have blasphemed your name.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Don’t deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts.
Don’t forget the life of your poor forever.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Honor your covenant,
for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Don’t let the oppressed return ashamed.
Let the poor and needy praise your name.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Arise, God! Plead your own cause.
Remember how the foolish man mocks you all day.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Don’t forget the voice of your adversaries.
The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.
