---
number: 77
title: "For the Chief Musician. To Jeduthun. A Psalm by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> My cry goes to God!
Indeed, I cry to God for help,
and for him to listen to me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord.
My hand was stretched out in the night, and didn’t get tired.
My soul refused to be comforted.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I remember God, and I groan.
I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed.


<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> You hold my eyelids open.
I am so troubled that I can’t speak.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> I have considered the days of old,
the years of ancient times.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I remember my song in the night.
I consider in my own heart;
my spirit diligently inquires:

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> “Will the Lord reject us forever?
Will he be favorable no more?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Has his loving kindness vanished forever?
Does his promise fail for generations?

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Has God forgotten to be gracious?
Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion?”

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Then I thought, “I will appeal to this:
the years of the right hand of the Most High.”

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I will remember Yah’s deeds;
for I will remember your wonders of old.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> I will also meditate on all your work,
and consider your doings.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Your way, God, is in the sanctuary.
What god is great like God?

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> You are the God who does wonders.
You have made your strength known among the peoples.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> You have redeemed your people with your arm,
the sons of Jacob and Joseph.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The waters saw you, God.
The waters saw you, and they writhed.
The depths also convulsed.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The clouds poured out water.
The skies resounded with thunder.
Your arrows also flashed around.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind.
The lightnings lit up the world.
The earth trembled and shook.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Your way was through the sea;
your paths through the great waters.
Your footsteps were not known.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> You led your people like a flock,
by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
