---
number: 80
title: "For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “The Lilies of the Covenant.” A Psalm by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear us, Shepherd of Israel,
you who lead Joseph like a flock,
you who sit above the cherubim, shine out.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might!
Come to save us!

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Turn us again, God.
Cause your face to shine,
and we will be saved.


<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Yahweh God of Armies,
how long will you be angry against the prayer of your people?

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You have fed them with the bread of tears,
and given them tears to drink in large measure.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> You make us a source of contention to our neighbors.
Our enemies laugh among themselves.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Turn us again, God of Armies.
Cause your face to shine,
and we will be saved.


<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> You brought a vine out of Egypt.
You drove out the nations, and planted it.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> You cleared the ground for it.
It took deep root, and filled the land.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The mountains were covered with its shadow.
Its boughs were like God’s cedars.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> It sent out its branches to the sea,
its shoots to the River.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Why have you broken down its walls,
so that all those who pass by the way pluck it?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The boar out of the wood ravages it.
The wild animals of the field feed on it.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies.
Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vine,

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> the stock which your right hand planted,
the branch that you made strong for yourself.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> It’s burned with fire.
It’s cut down.
They perish at your rebuke.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Let your hand be on the man of your right hand,
on the son of man whom you made strong for yourself.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> So we will not turn away from you.
Revive us, and we will call on your name.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Turn us again, Yahweh God of Armies.
Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.
