---
number: 81
title: "For the Chief Musician. On an instrument of Gath. By Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Sing aloud to God, our strength!
Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob!

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine,
the pleasant lyre with the harp.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Blow the trumpet at the New Moon,
at the full moon, on our feast day.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For it is a statute for Israel,
an ordinance of the God of Jacob.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> He appointed it in Joseph for a covenant,
when he went out over the land of Egypt,
I heard a language that I didn’t know.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> “I removed his shoulder from the burden.
His hands were freed from the basket.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> You called in trouble, and I delivered you.
I answered you in the secret place of thunder.
I tested you at the waters of Meribah.”


<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> “Hear, my people, and I will testify to you,
Israel, if you would listen to me!

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> There shall be no strange god in you,
neither shall you worship any foreign god.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I am Yahweh, your God,
who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.
Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> But my people didn’t listen to my voice.
Israel desired none of me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> So I let them go after the stubbornness of their hearts,
that they might walk in their own counsels.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Oh that my people would listen to me,
that Israel would walk in my ways!

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I would soon subdue their enemies,
and turn my hand against their adversaries.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The haters of Yahweh would cringe before him,
and their punishment would last forever.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat.
I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock.”
