---
number: 83
title: "A song. A Psalm by Asaph."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> God, don’t keep silent.
Don’t keep silent,
and don’t be still, God.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For, behold, your enemies are stirred up.
Those who hate you have lifted up their heads.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> They conspire with cunning against your people.
They plot against your cherished ones.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> “Come,” they say, “let’s destroy them as a nation,
that the name of Israel may be remembered no more.”

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For they have conspired together with one mind.
They form an alliance against you.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites;
Moab, and the Hagrites;

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek;
Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Assyria also is joined with them.
They have helped the children of Lot.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Do to them as you did to Midian,
as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon;

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> who perished at Endor,
who became as dung for the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb,
yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna,

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> who said, “Let’s take possession of God’s pasture lands.”

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> My God, make them like tumbleweed,
like chaff before the wind.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> As the fire that burns the forest,
as the flame that sets the mountains on fire,

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> so pursue them with your tempest,
and terrify them with your storm.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Fill their faces with confusion,
that they may seek your name, Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever.
Yes, let them be confounded and perish;

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> that they may know that you alone, whose name is Yahweh,
are the Most High over all the earth.
