---
number: 88
title: "A Song. A Psalm by the sons of Korah. For the Chief Musician. To the tune of “The Suffering of Affliction.” A contemplation by Heman, the Ezrahite."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, the God of my salvation,
I have cried day and night before you.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let my prayer enter into your presence.
Turn your ear to my cry.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For my soul is full of troubles.
My life draws near to Sheol.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I am counted among those who go down into the pit.
I am like a man who has no help,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> set apart among the dead,
like the slain who lie in the grave,
whom you remember no more.
They are cut off from your hand.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> You have laid me in the lowest pit,
in the darkest depths.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Your wrath lies heavily on me.
You have afflicted me with all your waves.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> You have taken my friends from me.
You have made me an abomination to them.
I am confined, and I can’t escape.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> My eyes are dim from grief.
I have called on you daily, Yahweh.
I have spread out my hands to you.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Do you show wonders to the dead?
Do the departed spirits rise up and praise you?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Is your loving kindness declared in the grave?
Or your faithfulness in Destruction?

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Are your wonders made known in the dark?
Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But to you, Yahweh, I have cried.
In the morning, my prayer comes before you.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Yahweh, why do you reject my soul?
Why do you hide your face from me?

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up.
While I suffer your terrors, I am distracted.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Your fierce wrath has gone over me.
Your terrors have cut me off.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> They came around me like water all day long.
They completely engulfed me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> You have put lover and friend far from me,
and my friends into darkness.
