---
number: 89
title: "A contemplation by Ethan, the Ezrahite."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever.
With my mouth, I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I indeed declare, “Love stands firm forever.
You established the heavens.
Your faithfulness is in them.”


<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> “I have made a covenant with my chosen one,
I have sworn to David, my servant,

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> ‘I will establish your offspring forever,
and build up your throne to all generations.’ ”

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh,
your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh?
Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh,

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> a very awesome God in the council of the holy ones,
to be feared above all those who are around him?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you?
Yah, your faithfulness is around you.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> You rule the pride of the sea.
When its waves rise up, you calm them.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain.
You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The heavens are yours.
The earth also is yours,
the world and its fullness.
You have founded them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> You have created the north and the south.
Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> You have a mighty arm.
Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne.
Loving kindness and truth go before your face.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you.
They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> In your name they rejoice all day.
In your righteousness, they are exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For you are the glory of their strength.
In your favor, our horn will be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For our shield belongs to Yahweh,
our king to the Holy One of Israel.


<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then you spoke in vision to your saints,
and said, “I have given strength to the warrior.
I have exalted a young man from the people.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> I have found David, my servant.
I have anointed him with my holy oil,

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> with whom my hand shall be established.
My arm will also strengthen him.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> No enemy will tax him.
No wicked man will oppress him.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> I will beat down his adversaries before him,
and strike those who hate him.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him.
In my name, his horn will be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I will set his hand also on the sea,
and his right hand on the rivers.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> He will call to me, ‘You are my Father,
my God, and the rock of my salvation!’

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> I will also appoint him my firstborn,
the highest of the kings of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> I will keep my loving kindness for him forever more.
My covenant will stand firm with him.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> I will also make his offspring endure forever,
and his throne as the days of heaven.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> If his children forsake my law,
and don’t walk in my ordinances;

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> if they break my statutes,
and don’t keep my commandments;

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> then I will punish their sin with the rod,
and their iniquity with stripes.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> But I will not completely take my loving kindness from him,
nor allow my faithfulness to fail.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> I will not break my covenant,
nor alter what my lips have uttered.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Once I have sworn by my holiness,
I will not lie to David.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> His offspring will endure forever,
his throne like the sun before me.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> It will be established forever like the moon,
the faithful witness in the sky.”


<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> But you have rejected and spurned.
You have been angry with your anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> You have renounced the covenant of your servant.
You have defiled his crown in the dust.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> You have broken down all his hedges.
You have brought his strongholds to ruin.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> All who pass by the way rob him.
He has become a reproach to his neighbors.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries.
You have made all of his enemies rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword,
and haven’t supported him in battle.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> You have ended his splendor,
and thrown his throne down to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> You have shortened the days of his youth.
You have covered him with shame.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> How long, Yahweh?
Will you hide yourself forever?
Will your wrath burn like fire?

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> Remember how short my time is,
for what vanity you have created all the children of men!

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> What man is he who shall live and not see death,
who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol?

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> Lord, where are your former loving kindnesses,
which you swore to David in your faithfulness?

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants,
how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,

<sup class="verse-num">51</sup> With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh,
with which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one.


<sup class="verse-num">52</sup> Blessed be Yahweh forever more.
Amen, and Amen.
