---
number: 9
title: "For the Chief Musician. Set to “The Death of the Son.” A Psalm by David."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart.
I will tell of all your marvelous works.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I will be glad and rejoice in you.
I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> When my enemies turn back,
they stumble and perish in your presence.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For you have maintained my just cause.
You sit on the throne judging righteously.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You have rebuked the nations.
You have destroyed the wicked.
You have blotted out their name forever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin.
The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> But Yahweh reigns forever.
He has prepared his throne for judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He will judge the world in righteousness.
He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed;
a high tower in times of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Those who know your name will put their trust in you,
for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Sing praises to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion,
and declare among the people what he has done.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For he who avenges blood remembers them.
He doesn’t forget the cry of the afflicted.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Have mercy on me, Yahweh.
See my affliction by those who hate me,
and lift me up from the gates of death,

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> that I may show all of your praise.
I will rejoice in your salvation in the gates of the daughter of Zion.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made.
In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Yahweh has made himself known.
He has executed judgment.
The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol,
even all the nations that forget God.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For the needy shall not always be forgotten,
nor the hope of the poor perish forever.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Arise, Yahweh! Don’t let man prevail.
Let the nations be judged in your sight.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Put them in fear, Yahweh.
Let the nations know that they are only men.
