---
number: 90
title: "A Prayer by Moses, the man of God.* The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim)."
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Lord, you have been our dwelling place for all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Before the mountains were born,
before you had formed the earth and the world,
even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> You turn man to destruction, saying,
“Return, you children of men.”

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For a thousand years in your sight are just like yesterday when it is past,
like a watch in the night.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You sweep them away as they sleep.
In the morning they sprout like new grass.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> In the morning it sprouts and springs up.
By evening, it is withered and dry.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For we are consumed in your anger.
We are troubled in your wrath.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> You have set our iniquities before you,
our secret sins in the light of your presence.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For all our days have passed away in your wrath.
We bring our years to an end as a sigh.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The days of our years are seventy,
or even by reason of strength eighty years;
yet their pride is but labor and sorrow,
for it passes quickly, and we fly away.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Who knows the power of your anger,
your wrath according to the fear that is due to you?

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> So teach us to count our days,
that we may gain a heart of wisdom.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Relent, Yahweh!
How long?
Have compassion on your servants!

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness,
that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us,
for as many years as we have seen evil.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Let your work appear to your servants,
your glory to their children.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Let the favor of the Lord our God be on us.
Establish the work of our hands for us.
Yes, establish the work of our hands.
