---
number: 91
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High
will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I will say of Yahweh, “He is my refuge and my fortress;
my God, in whom I trust.”

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler,
and from the deadly pestilence.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He will cover you with his feathers.
Under his wings you will take refuge.
His faithfulness is your shield and rampart.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> You shall not be afraid of the terror by night,
nor of the arrow that flies by day,

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness,
nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> A thousand may fall at your side,
and ten thousand at your right hand;
but it will not come near you.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> You will only look with your eyes,
and see the recompense of the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Because you have made Yahweh your refuge,
and the Most High your dwelling place,

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> no evil shall happen to you,
neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For he will put his angels in charge of you,
to guard you in all your ways.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They will bear you up in their hands,
so that you won’t dash your foot against a stone.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> You will tread on the lion and cobra.
You will trample the young lion and the serpent underfoot.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> “Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him.
I will set him on high, because he has known my name.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He will call on me, and I will answer him.
I will be with him in trouble.
I will deliver him, and honor him.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will satisfy him with long life,
and show him my salvation.”
