---
number: 94
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Yahweh, you God to whom vengeance belongs,
you God to whom vengeance belongs, shine out.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Rise up, you judge of the earth.
Pay back the proud what they deserve.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Yahweh, how long will the wicked,
how long will the wicked triumph?

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They pour out arrogant words.
All the evildoers boast.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They break your people in pieces, Yahweh,
and afflict your heritage.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They kill the widow and the alien,
and murder the fatherless.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They say, “Yah will not see,
neither will Jacob’s God consider.”

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Consider, you senseless among the people;
you fools, when will you be wise?

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He who implanted the ear, won’t he hear?
He who formed the eye, won’t he see?

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He who disciplines the nations, won’t he punish?
He who teaches man knows.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Yahweh knows the thoughts of man,
that they are futile.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Blessed is the man whom you discipline, Yah,
and teach out of your law,

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> that you may give him rest from the days of adversity,
until the pit is dug for the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For Yahweh won’t reject his people,
neither will he forsake his inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> For judgment will return to righteousness.
All the upright in heart shall follow it.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Who will rise up for me against the wicked?
Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Unless Yahweh had been my help,
my soul would have soon lived in silence.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> When I said, “My foot is slipping!”
Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> In the multitude of my thoughts within me,
your comforts delight my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you,
which brings about mischief by statute?

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous,
and condemn the innocent blood.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> But Yahweh has been my high tower,
my God, the rock of my refuge.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> He has brought on them their own iniquity,
and will cut them off in their own wickedness.
Yahweh, our God, will cut them off.
