---
number: 10
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? <em>why</em> hidest thou <em>thyself</em> in times of trouble?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> The wicked in <em>his</em> pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, <em>whom</em> the LORD abhorreth.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek <em>after God</em>: God <em>is</em> not in all his thoughts.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> His ways are always grievous; thy judgments <em>are</em> far above out of his sight: <em>as for</em> all his enemies, he puffeth at them.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for <em>I shall</em> never <em>be</em> in adversity.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue <em>is</em> mischief and vanity.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He croucheth, <em>and</em> humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Thou hast seen <em>it</em>; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite <em>it</em> with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil <em>man</em>: seek out his wickedness <em>till</em> thou find none.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.
