---
number: 102
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Hide not thy face from me in the day <em>when</em> I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day <em>when</em> I call answer me speedily.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Mine enemies reproach me all the day; <em>and</em> they that are mad against me are sworn against me.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> My days <em>are</em> like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> But thou, O LORD, shalt endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou shalt arise, <em>and</em> have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth;

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years <em>are</em> throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens <em>are</em> the work of thy hands.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed:

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> But thou <em>art</em> the same, and thy years shall have no end.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.
