---
number: 103
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, <em>bless</em> his holy name.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Who satisfieth thy mouth with good <em>things; so that</em> thy youth is renewed like the eagle's.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He will not always chide: neither will he keep <em>his anger</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For as the heaven is high above the earth, <em>so</em> great is his mercy toward them that fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> As far as the east is from the west, <em>so</em> far hath he removed our transgressions from us.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Like as a father pitieth <em>his</em> children, <em>so</em> the LORD pitieth them that fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we <em>are</em> dust.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> <em>As for</em> man, his days <em>are</em> as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> But the mercy of the LORD <em>is</em> from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children;

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Bless ye the LORD, all <em>ye</em> his hosts; <em>ye</em> ministers of his, that do his pleasure.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the LORD, O my soul.
