---
number: 104
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Who coverest <em>thyself</em> with light as <em>with</em> a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> <em>Who</em> laid the foundations of the earth, <em>that</em> it should not be removed for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Thou coveredst it with the deep as <em>with</em> a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He sendeth the springs into the valleys, <em>which</em> run among the hills.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, <em>which</em> sing among the branches.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> And wine <em>that</em> maketh glad the heart of man, <em>and</em> oil to make <em>his</em> face to shine, and bread <em>which</em> strengtheneth man's heart.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The trees of the LORD are full <em>of sap</em>; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Where the birds make their nests: <em>as for</em> the stork, the fir trees <em>are</em> her house.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The high hills <em>are</em> a refuge for the wild goats; <em>and</em> the rocks for the conies.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep <em>forth</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> <em>So is</em> this great and wide sea, wherein <em>are</em> things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> There go the ships: <em>there is</em> that leviathan, <em>whom</em> thou hast made to play therein.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give <em>them</em> their meat in due season.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> <em>That</em> thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD.
