---
number: 105
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He <em>is</em> the LORD our God: his judgments <em>are</em> in all the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word <em>which</em> he commanded to a thousand generations.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Which <em>covenant</em> he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, <em>and</em> to Israel <em>for</em> an everlasting covenant:

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> When they were <em>but</em> a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> When they went from one nation to another, from <em>one</em> kingdom to another people;

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> <em>Saying</em>, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He sent a man before them, <em>even</em> Joseph, <em>who</em> was sold for a servant:

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> The king sent and loosed him; <em>even</em> the ruler of the people, and let him go free.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> He sent Moses his servant; <em>and</em> Aaron whom he had chosen.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, <em>and</em> lice in all their coasts.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> He gave them hail for rain, <em>and</em> flaming fire in their land.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and <em>there was</em> not one feeble <em>person</em> among their tribes.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> <em>The people</em> asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places <em>like</em> a river.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> For he remembered his holy promise, <em>and</em> Abraham his servant.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> And he brought forth his people with joy, <em>and</em> his chosen with gladness:

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people;

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the LORD.
