---
number: 106
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? <em>who</em> can shew forth all his praise?

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Blessed <em>are</em> they that keep judgment, <em>and</em> he that doeth righteousness at all times.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Remember me, O LORD, with the favour <em>that thou bearest unto</em> thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked <em>him</em> at the sea, <em>even</em> at the Red sea.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> And he saved them from the hand of him that hated <em>them</em>, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> They envied Moses also in the camp, <em>and</em> Aaron the saint of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt;

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Wondrous works in the land of Ham, <em>and</em> terrible things by the Red sea.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy <em>them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> But murmured in their tents, <em>and</em> hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> They joined themselves also unto Baal-peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Thus they provoked <em>him</em> to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and <em>so</em> the plague was stayed.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> They angered <em>him</em> also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them:

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils,

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> And shed innocent blood, <em>even</em> the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked <em>him</em> with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, <em>and</em> to triumph in thy praise.

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD.
