---
number: 107
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O give thanks unto the LORD, for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let the redeemed of the LORD say <em>so</em>, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he delivered them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men!

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, <em>being</em> bound in affliction and iron;

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and <em>there was</em> none to help.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he saved them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men!

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he saveth them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered <em>them</em> from their destructions.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men!

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men!

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, <em>where there is</em> no way.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh <em>him</em> families like a flock.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> The righteous shall see <em>it</em>, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Whoso <em>is</em> wise, and will observe these <em>things</em>, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.
