---
number: 109
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For my love they are my adversaries: but I <em>give myself unto</em> prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let his days be few; <em>and</em> let another take his office.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek <em>their bread</em> also out of their desolate places.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Let his posterity be cut off; <em>and</em> in the generation following let their name be blotted out.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Let it be unto him as the garment <em>which</em> covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> <em>Let</em> this <em>be</em> the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy <em>is</em> good, deliver thou me.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> For I <em>am</em> poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I became also a reproach unto them: <em>when</em> they looked upon me they shaked their heads.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy:

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> That they may know that this <em>is</em> thy hand; <em>that</em> thou, LORD, hast done it.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save <em>him</em> from those that condemn his soul.
