---
number: 115
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, <em>and</em> for thy truth's sake.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where <em>is</em> now their God?

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But our God <em>is</em> in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Their idols <em>are</em> silver and gold, the work of men's hands.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They that make them are like unto them; <em>so is</em> every one that trusteth in them.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless <em>us</em>; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He will bless them that fear the LORD, <em>both</em> small and great.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Ye <em>are</em> blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The heaven, <em>even</em> the heavens, <em>are</em> the LORD'S: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD.
