---
number: 116
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice <em>and</em> my supplications.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon <em>him</em> as long as I live.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Gracious <em>is</em> the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God <em>is</em> merciful.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, <em>and</em> my feet from falling.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I said in my haste, All men <em>are</em> liars.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> What shall I render unto the LORD <em>for</em> all his benefits toward me?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Precious in the sight of the LORD <em>is</em> the death of his saints.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> O LORD, truly I <em>am</em> thy servant; I <em>am</em> thy servant, <em>and</em> the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people,

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> In the courts of the LORD'S house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.
