---
number: 118
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: because his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let Israel now say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, <em>and set me</em> in a large place.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see <em>my desire</em> upon them that hate me.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> <em>It is</em> better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> <em>It is</em> better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in princes.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD will I destroy them.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD helped me.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> my strength and song, and is become my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The voice of rejoicing and salvation <em>is</em> in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, <em>and</em> I will praise the LORD:

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The stone <em>which</em> the builders refused is become the head <em>stone</em> of the corner.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> This is the LORD'S doing; it <em>is</em> marvellous in our eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> This <em>is</em> the day <em>which</em> the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we have blessed you out of the house of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> God <em>is</em> the LORD, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, <em>even</em> unto the horns of the altar.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Thou <em>art</em> my God, and I will praise thee: <em>thou art</em> my God, I will exalt thee.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.
