---
number: 119
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Blessed <em>are</em> the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Blessed <em>are</em> they that keep his testimonies, <em>and that</em> seek him with the whole heart.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Thou hast commanded <em>us</em> to keep thy precepts diligently.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed <em>thereto</em> according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Blessed <em>art</em> thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as <em>much as</em> in all riches.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Deal bountifully with thy servant, <em>that</em> I may live, and keep thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> I <em>am</em> a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> My soul breaketh for the longing <em>that it hath</em> unto thy judgments at all times.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Thou hast rebuked the proud <em>that are</em> cursed, which do err from thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Princes also did sit <em>and</em> speak against me: <em>but</em> thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Thy testimonies also <em>are</em> my delight <em>and</em> my counsellors.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid <em>before me</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it <em>unto</em> the end.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with <em>my</em> whole heart.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; <em>and</em> quicken thou me in thy way.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who <em>is devoted</em> to thy fear.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments <em>are</em> good.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, <em>even</em> thy salvation, according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> This <em>is</em> my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.

<sup class="verse-num">51</sup> The proud have had me greatly in derision: <em>yet</em> have I not declined from thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">52</sup> I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself.

<sup class="verse-num">53</sup> Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">54</sup> Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.

<sup class="verse-num">55</sup> I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">56</sup> This I had, because I kept thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">57</sup> <em>Thou art</em> my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy words.

<sup class="verse-num">58</sup> I intreated thy favour with <em>my</em> whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">59</sup> I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">60</sup> I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">61</sup> The bands of the wicked have robbed me: <em>but</em> I have not forgotten thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">62</sup> At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">63</sup> I <em>am</em> a companion of all <em>them</em> that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">64</sup> The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">65</sup> Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">66</sup> Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">67</sup> Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">68</sup> Thou <em>art</em> good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">69</sup> The proud have forged a lie against me: <em>but</em> I will keep thy precepts with <em>my</em> whole heart.

<sup class="verse-num">70</sup> Their heart is as fat as grease; <em>but</em> I delight in thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">71</sup> <em>It is</em> good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">72</sup> The law of thy mouth <em>is</em> better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.

<sup class="verse-num">73</sup> Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">74</sup> They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">75</sup> I know, O LORD, that thy judgments <em>are</em> right, and <em>that</em> thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.

<sup class="verse-num">76</sup> Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.

<sup class="verse-num">77</sup> Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law <em>is</em> my delight.

<sup class="verse-num">78</sup> Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: <em>but</em> I will meditate in thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">79</sup> Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">80</sup> Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.

<sup class="verse-num">81</sup> My soul fainteth for thy salvation: <em>but</em> I hope in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">82</sup> Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?

<sup class="verse-num">83</sup> For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; <em>yet</em> do I not forget thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">84</sup> How many <em>are</em> the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?

<sup class="verse-num">85</sup> The proud have digged pits for me, which <em>are</em> not after thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">86</sup> All thy commandments <em>are</em> faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.

<sup class="verse-num">87</sup> They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">88</sup> Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">89</sup> For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven.

<sup class="verse-num">90</sup> Thy faithfulness <em>is</em> unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.

<sup class="verse-num">91</sup> They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all <em>are</em> thy servants.

<sup class="verse-num">92</sup> Unless thy law <em>had been</em> my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.

<sup class="verse-num">93</sup> I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.

<sup class="verse-num">94</sup> I <em>am</em> thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">95</sup> The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: <em>but</em> I will consider thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">96</sup> I have seen an end of all perfection: <em>but</em> thy commandment <em>is</em> exceeding broad.

<sup class="verse-num">97</sup> O how love I thy law! it <em>is</em> my meditation all the day.

<sup class="verse-num">98</sup> Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they <em>are</em> ever with me.

<sup class="verse-num">99</sup> I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies <em>are</em> my meditation.

<sup class="verse-num">100</sup> I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">101</sup> I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">102</sup> I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.

<sup class="verse-num">103</sup> How sweet are thy words unto my taste! <em>yea, sweeter</em> than honey to my mouth!

<sup class="verse-num">104</sup> Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.

<sup class="verse-num">105</sup> Thy word <em>is</em> a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

<sup class="verse-num">106</sup> I have sworn, and I will perform <em>it</em>, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">107</sup> I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">108</sup> Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">109</sup> My soul <em>is</em> continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">110</sup> The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">111</sup> Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they <em>are</em> the rejoicing of my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">112</sup> I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, <em>even unto</em> the end.

<sup class="verse-num">113</sup> I hate <em>vain</em> thoughts: but thy law do I love.

<sup class="verse-num">114</sup> Thou <em>art</em> my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">115</sup> Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.

<sup class="verse-num">116</sup> Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.

<sup class="verse-num">117</sup> Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.

<sup class="verse-num">118</sup> Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit <em>is</em> falsehood.

<sup class="verse-num">119</sup> Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth <em>like</em> dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">120</sup> My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">121</sup> I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.

<sup class="verse-num">122</sup> Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.

<sup class="verse-num">123</sup> Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">124</sup> Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">125</sup> I <em>am</em> thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">126</sup> <em>It is</em> time for <em>thee</em>, LORD, to work: <em>for</em> they have made void thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">127</sup> Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.

<sup class="verse-num">128</sup> Therefore I esteem all <em>thy</em> precepts <em>concerning</em> all <em>things to be</em> right; <em>and</em> I hate every false way.

<sup class="verse-num">129</sup> Thy testimonies <em>are</em> wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.

<sup class="verse-num">130</sup> The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.

<sup class="verse-num">131</sup> I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">132</sup> Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">133</sup> Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.

<sup class="verse-num">134</sup> Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">135</sup> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">136</sup> Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">137</sup> Righteous <em>art</em> thou, O LORD, and upright <em>are</em> thy judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">138</sup> Thy testimonies <em>that</em> thou hast commanded <em>are</em> righteous and very faithful.

<sup class="verse-num">139</sup> My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.

<sup class="verse-num">140</sup> Thy word <em>is</em> very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.

<sup class="verse-num">141</sup> I <em>am</em> small and despised: <em>yet</em> do not I forget thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">142</sup> Thy righteousness <em>is</em> an everlasting righteousness, and thy law <em>is</em> the truth.

<sup class="verse-num">143</sup> Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: <em>yet</em> thy commandments <em>are</em> my delights.

<sup class="verse-num">144</sup> The righteousness of thy testimonies <em>is</em> everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.

<sup class="verse-num">145</sup> I cried with <em>my</em> whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">146</sup> I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">147</sup> I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">148</sup> Mine eyes prevent the <em>night</em> watches, that I might meditate in thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">149</sup> Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">150</sup> They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">151</sup> Thou <em>art</em> near, O LORD; and all thy commandments <em>are</em> truth.

<sup class="verse-num">152</sup> Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">153</sup> Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.

<sup class="verse-num">154</sup> Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">155</sup> Salvation <em>is</em> far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">156</sup> Great <em>are</em> thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">157</sup> Many <em>are</em> my persecutors and mine enemies; <em>yet</em> do I not decline from thy testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">158</sup> I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">159</sup> Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness.

<sup class="verse-num">160</sup> Thy word <em>is</em> true <em>from</em> the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">161</sup> Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">162</sup> I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.

<sup class="verse-num">163</sup> I hate and abhor lying: <em>but</em> thy law do I love.

<sup class="verse-num">164</sup> Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.

<sup class="verse-num">165</sup> Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.

<sup class="verse-num">166</sup> LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.

<sup class="verse-num">167</sup> My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.

<sup class="verse-num">168</sup> I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways <em>are</em> before thee.

<sup class="verse-num">169</sup> Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">170</sup> Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.

<sup class="verse-num">171</sup> My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.

<sup class="verse-num">172</sup> My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments <em>are</em> righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">173</sup> Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.

<sup class="verse-num">174</sup> I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law <em>is</em> my delight.

<sup class="verse-num">175</sup> Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.

<sup class="verse-num">176</sup> I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.
