---
number: 132
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> LORD, remember David, <em>and</em> all his afflictions:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> How he sware unto the LORD, <em>and</em> vowed unto the mighty <em>God</em> of Jacob;

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, <em>or</em> slumber to mine eyelids,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty <em>God</em> of Jacob.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The LORD hath sworn <em>in</em> truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired <em>it</em> for his habitation.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> This <em>is</em> my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.
