---
number: 135
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise <em>him</em>, O ye servants of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God,

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Praise the LORD; for the LORD <em>is</em> good: sing praises unto his name; for <em>it is</em> pleasant.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, <em>and</em> Israel for his peculiar treasure.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For I know that the LORD <em>is</em> great, and <em>that</em> our Lord <em>is</em> above all gods.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Whatsoever the LORD pleased, <em>that</em> did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> <em>Who</em> sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> And gave their land <em>for</em> an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thy name, O LORD, <em>endureth</em> for ever; <em>and</em> thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The idols of the heathen <em>are</em> silver and gold, the work of men's hands.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there <em>any</em> breath in their mouths.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They that make them are like unto them: <em>so is</em> every one that trusteth in them.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron:

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.
