---
number: 136
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> To him that made great lights: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The sun to rule by day: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> To him which smote great kings: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> And slew famous kings: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> <em>Even</em> an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.
