---
number: 139
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known <em>me</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted <em>with</em> all my ways.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For <em>there is</em> not a word in my tongue, <em>but</em>, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> <em>Such</em> knowledge <em>is</em> too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot <em>attain</em> unto it.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> If I ascend up into heaven, thou <em>art</em> there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou <em>art there</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> <em>If</em> I take the wings of the morning, <em>and</em> dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light <em>are</em> both alike <em>to thee</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I will praise thee; for I am fearfully <em>and</em> wonderfully made: marvellous <em>are</em> thy works; and <em>that</em> my soul knoweth right well.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, <em>and</em> curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all <em>my members</em> were written, <em>which</em> in continuance were fashioned, when <em>as yet there was</em> none of them.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them!

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> <em>If</em> I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> For they speak against thee wickedly, <em>and</em> thine enemies take <em>thy name</em> in vain.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> And see if <em>there be any</em> wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.
