---
number: 144
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD my strength, which teacheth my hands to war, <em>and</em> my fingers to fight:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and <em>he</em> in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> LORD, what <em>is</em> man, that thou takest knowledge of him! <em>or</em> the son of man, that thou makest account of him!

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Man is like to vanity: his days <em>are</em> as a shadow that passeth away.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand <em>is</em> a right hand of falsehood.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery <em>and</em> an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> <em>It is he</em> that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand <em>is</em> a right hand of falsehood:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> That our sons <em>may be</em> as plants grown up in their youth; <em>that</em> our daughters <em>may be</em> as corner stones, polished <em>after</em> the similitude of a palace:

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> <em>That</em> our garners <em>may be</em> full, affording all manner of store: <em>that</em> our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> <em>That</em> our oxen <em>may be</em> strong to labour; <em>that there be</em> no breaking in, nor going out; that <em>there be</em> no complaining in our streets.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Happy <em>is that</em> people, that is in such a case: <em>yea</em>, happy <em>is that</em> people, whose God <em>is</em> the LORD.
