---
number: 145
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Great <em>is</em> the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness <em>is</em> unsearchable.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> And <em>men</em> shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> good to all: and his tender mercies <em>are</em> over all his works.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall bless thee.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power;

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thy kingdom <em>is</em> an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion <em>endureth</em> throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all <em>those that be</em> bowed down.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.
