---
number: 147
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise ye the LORD: for <em>it is</em> good to sing praises unto our God; for <em>it is</em> pleasant; <em>and</em> praise is comely.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by <em>their</em> names.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Great <em>is</em> our Lord, and of great power: his understanding <em>is</em> infinite.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He giveth to the beast his food, <em>and</em> to the young ravens which cry.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He maketh peace <em>in</em> thy borders, <em>and</em> filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He sendeth forth his commandment <em>upon</em> earth: his word runneth very swiftly.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, <em>and</em> the waters flow.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He hath not dealt so with any nation: and <em>as for his</em> judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.
