---
number: 17
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, <em>that goeth</em> not out of feigned lips.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited <em>me</em> in the night; thou hast tried me, <em>and</em> shalt find nothing; I am purposed <em>that</em> my mouth shall not transgress.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept <em>me from</em> the paths of the destroyer.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Hold up my goings in thy paths, <em>that</em> my footsteps slip not.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, <em>and hear</em> my speech.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust <em>in thee</em> from those that rise up <em>against them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings,

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> From the wicked that oppress me, <em>from</em> my deadly enemies, <em>who</em> compass me about.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth;

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Like as a lion <em>that</em> is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, <em>which is</em> thy sword:

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> From men <em>which are</em> thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world, <em>which have</em> their portion in <em>this</em> life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid <em>treasure</em>: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their <em>substance</em> to their babes.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.
