---
number: 18
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, <em>and</em> my high tower.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I will call upon the LORD, <em>who is worthy</em> to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, <em>even</em> into his ears.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness <em>was</em> under his feet.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him <em>were</em> dark waters <em>and</em> thick clouds of the skies.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> At the brightness <em>that was</em> before him his thick clouds passed, hail <em>stones</em> and coals of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail <em>stones</em> and coals of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> For all his judgments <em>were</em> before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself froward.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down high looks.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> <em>As for</em> God, his way <em>is</em> perfect: the word of the LORD is tried: he <em>is</em> a buckler to all those that trust in him.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> For who <em>is</em> God save the LORD? or who <em>is</em> a rock save our God?

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> <em>It is</em> God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> He maketh my feet like hinds' <em>feet</em>, and setteth me upon my high places.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> They cried, but <em>there was</em> none to save <em>them: even</em> unto the LORD, but he answered them not.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; <em>and</em> thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people <em>whom</em> I have not known shall serve me.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves unto me.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> The LORD liveth; and blessed <em>be</em> my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> <em>It is</em> God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man.

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.
