---
number: 19
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> <em>There is</em> no speech nor language, <em>where</em> their voice is not heard.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Which <em>is</em> as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, <em>and</em> rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> His going forth <em>is</em> from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> The law of the LORD <em>is</em> perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD <em>is</em> sure, making wise the simple.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The statutes of the LORD <em>are</em> right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD <em>is</em> pure, enlightening the eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The fear of the LORD <em>is</em> clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD <em>are</em> true <em>and</em> righteous altogether.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> More to be desired <em>are they</em> than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Moreover by them is thy servant warned: <em>and</em> in keeping of them <em>there is</em> great reward.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Who can understand <em>his</em> errors? cleanse thou me from secret <em>faults</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous <em>sins</em>; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.
