---
number: 21
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He asked life of thee, <em>and</em> thou gavest <em>it</em> him, <em>even</em> length of days for ever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> His glory <em>is</em> great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, <em>which</em> they are not able <em>to perform</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, <em>when</em> thou shalt make ready <em>thine arrows</em> upon thy strings against the face of them.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: <em>so</em> will we sing and praise thy power.
