---
number: 22
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <em>why art thou so</em> far from helping me, <em>and from</em> the words of my roaring?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But thou <em>art</em> holy, <em>O thou</em> that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> But I <em>am</em> a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, <em>saying</em>,

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He trusted on the LORD <em>that</em> he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> But thou <em>art</em> he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope <em>when I was</em> upon my mother's breasts.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou <em>art</em> my God from my mother's belly.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Be not far from me; for trouble <em>is</em> near; for <em>there is</em> none to help.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Many bulls have compassed me: strong <em>bulls</em> of Bashan have beset me round.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> They gaped upon me <em>with</em> their mouths, <em>as</em> a ravening and a roaring lion.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I may tell all my bones: they look <em>and</em> stare upon me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee to help me.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> My praise <em>shall be</em> of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For the kingdom <em>is</em> the LORD'S: and he <em>is</em> the governor among the nations.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> All <em>they that be</em> fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done <em>this</em>.
