---
number: 25
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou <em>art</em> the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they <em>have been</em> ever of old.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Good and upright <em>is</em> the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All the paths of the LORD <em>are</em> mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it <em>is</em> great.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> What man <em>is</em> he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way <em>that</em> he shall choose.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The secret of the LORD <em>is</em> with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Mine eyes <em>are</em> ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I <em>am</em> desolate and afflicted.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The troubles of my heart are enlarged: <em>O</em> bring thou me out of my distresses.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
