---
number: 27
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The LORD <em>is</em> my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD <em>is</em> the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> When the wicked, <em>even</em> mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this <em>will</em> I <em>be</em> confident.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> One <em>thing</em> have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Hear, O LORD, <em>when</em> I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> <em>When thou saidst</em>, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, LORD, will I seek.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Hide not thy face <em>far</em> from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> <em>I had fainted</em>, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.
