---
number: 33
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: <em>for</em> praise is comely for the upright.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery <em>and</em> an instrument of ten strings.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For the word of the LORD <em>is</em> right; and all his works <em>are done</em> in truth.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For he spake, and it was <em>done</em>; he commanded, and it stood fast.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Blessed <em>is</em> the nation whose God <em>is</em> the LORD; <em>and</em> the people <em>whom</em> he hath chosen for his own inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> An horse <em>is</em> a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver <em>any</em> by his great strength.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Behold, the eye of the LORD <em>is</em> upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy;

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he <em>is</em> our help and our shield.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.
