---
number: 35
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Plead <em>my cause</em>, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Draw out also the spear, and stop <em>the way</em> against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I <em>am</em> thy salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase <em>them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For without cause have they hid for me their net <em>in</em> a pit, <em>which</em> without cause they have digged for my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> All my bones shall say, LORD, who <em>is</em> like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge <em>things</em> that I knew not.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They rewarded me evil for good <em>to</em> the spoiling of my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing <em>was</em> sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> I behaved myself as though <em>he had been</em> my friend <em>or</em> brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth <em>for his</em> mother.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: <em>yea</em>, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew <em>it</em> not; they did tear <em>me</em>, and ceased not:

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: <em>neither</em> let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against <em>them that are</em> quiet in the land.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, <em>and</em> said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> <em>This</em> thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, <em>even</em> unto my cause, my God and my Lord.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify <em>themselves</em> against me.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness <em>and</em> of thy praise all the day long.
