---
number: 37
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Trust in the LORD, and do good; <em>so</em> shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Delight thyself also in the LORD; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring <em>it</em> to pass.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For yet a little while, and the wicked <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em>: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The Lord shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, <em>and</em> to slay such as be of upright conversation.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> A little that a righteous man hath <em>is</em> better than the riches of many wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholdeth the righteous.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD <em>shall be</em> as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> For <em>such as be</em> blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and <em>they that be</em> cursed of him shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> The steps of a <em>good</em> man are ordered by the LORD: and he delighteth in his way.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD upholdeth <em>him with</em> his hand.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I have been young, and <em>now</em> am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> <em>He is</em> ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed <em>is</em> blessed.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> The law of his God <em>is</em> in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> Yet he passed away, and, lo, he <em>was</em> not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> Mark the perfect <em>man</em>, and behold the upright: for the end of <em>that</em> man <em>is</em> peace.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> But the salvation of the righteous <em>is</em> of the LORD: <em>he is</em> their strength in the time of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.
