---
number: 38
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O LORD, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> <em>There is</em> no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither <em>is there any</em> rest in my bones because of my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> My wounds stink <em>and</em> are corrupt because of my foolishness.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For my loins are filled with a loathsome <em>disease</em>: and <em>there is</em> no soundness in my flesh.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Lord, all my desire <em>is</em> before thee; and my groaning is not hid from thee.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They also that seek after my life lay snares <em>for me</em>: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But I, as a deaf <em>man</em>, heard not; and <em>I was</em> as a dumb man <em>that</em> openeth not his mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth <em>are</em> no reproofs.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For I said, <em>Hear me</em>, lest <em>otherwise</em> they should rejoice over me: when my foot slippeth, they magnify <em>themselves</em> against me.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For I <em>am</em> ready to halt, and my sorrow <em>is</em> continually before me.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> But mine enemies <em>are</em> lively, <em>and</em> they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries; because I follow <em>the thing that</em> good <em>is</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.
