---
number: 39
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, <em>even</em> from good; and my sorrow was stirred.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: <em>then</em> spake I with my tongue,

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it <em>is; that</em> I may know how frail I <em>am</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Behold, thou hast made my days <em>as</em> an handbreadth; and mine age <em>is</em> as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state <em>is</em> altogether vanity. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up <em>riches</em>, and knoweth not who shall gather them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope <em>is</em> in thee.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man <em>is</em> vanity. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I <em>am</em> a stranger with thee, <em>and</em> a sojourner, as all my fathers <em>were</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.
