---
number: 40
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, <em>and</em> established my goings.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> And he hath put a new song in my mouth, <em>even</em> praise unto our God: many shall see <em>it</em>, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Blessed <em>is</em> that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Many, O LORD my God, <em>are</em> thy wonderful works <em>which</em> thou hast done, and thy thoughts <em>which are</em> to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: <em>if</em> I would declare and speak <em>of them</em>, they are more than can be numbered.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book <em>it is</em> written of me,

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law <em>is</em> within my heart.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> But I <em>am</em> poor and needy; <em>yet</em> the Lord thinketh upon me: thou <em>art</em> my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.
