---
number: 42
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where <em>is</em> thy God?

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> When I remember these <em>things</em>, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and <em>why</em> art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him <em>for</em> the help of his countenance.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> <em>Yet</em> the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the daytime, and in the night his song <em>shall be</em> with me, <em>and</em> my prayer unto the God of my life.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> <em>As</em> with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where <em>is</em> thy God?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, <em>who is</em> the health of my countenance, and my God.
