---
number: 44
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, <em>what</em> work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> <em>How</em> thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; <em>how</em> thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Thou hast given us like sheep <em>appointed</em> for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase <em>thy wealth</em> by their price.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My confusion <em>is</em> continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way;

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast <em>us</em> not off for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, <em>and</em> forgettest our affliction and our oppression?

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.
