---
number: 45
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue <em>is</em> the pen of a ready writer.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Gird thy sword upon <em>thy</em> thigh, O <em>most</em> mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness <em>and</em> righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thine arrows <em>are</em> sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; <em>whereby</em> the people fall under thee.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Thy throne, O God, <em>is</em> for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom <em>is</em> a right sceptre.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> All thy garments <em>smell</em> of myrrh, and aloes, <em>and</em> cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Kings' daughters <em>were</em> among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house;

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he <em>is</em> thy Lord; and worship thou him.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> And the daughter of Tyre <em>shall be there</em> with a gift; <em>even</em> the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The king's daughter <em>is</em> all glorious within: her clothing <em>is</em> of wrought gold.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king's palace.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.
