---
number: 49
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Hear this, all <em>ye</em> people; give ear, all <em>ye</em> inhabitants of the world:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Both low and high, rich and poor, together.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart <em>shall be</em> of understanding.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, <em>when</em> the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> None <em>of them</em> can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> (For the redemption of their soul <em>is</em> precious, and it ceaseth for ever:)

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> That he should still live for ever, <em>and</em> not see corruption.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For he seeth <em>that</em> wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Their inward thought <em>is, that</em> their houses <em>shall continue</em> for ever, <em>and</em> their dwelling places to all generations; they call <em>their</em> lands after their own names.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Nevertheless man <em>being</em> in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts <em>that</em> perish.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> This their way <em>is</em> their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and <em>men</em> will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Man <em>that is</em> in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts <em>that</em> perish.
