---
number: 5
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct <em>my prayer</em> unto thee, and will look up.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For thou <em>art</em> not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> But as for me, I will come <em>into</em> thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: <em>and</em> in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For <em>there is</em> no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part <em>is</em> very wickedness; their throat <em>is</em> an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as <em>with</em> a shield.
