---
number: 50
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> The mighty God, <em>even</em> the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God <em>is</em> judge himself. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I <em>am</em> God, <em>even</em> thy God.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, <em>to have been</em> continually before me.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> I will take no bullock out of thy house, <em>nor</em> he goats out of thy folds.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For every beast of the forest <em>is</em> mine, <em>and</em> the cattle upon a thousand hills.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field <em>are</em> mine.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world <em>is</em> mine, and the fulness thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High:

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or <em>that</em> thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Seeing thou hatest instruction, and castest my words behind thee.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Thou sittest <em>and</em> speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> These <em>things</em> hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether <em>such an one</em> as thyself: <em>but</em> I will reprove thee, and set <em>them</em> in order before thine eyes.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear <em>you</em> in pieces, and <em>there be</em> none to deliver.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth <em>his</em> conversation <em>aright</em> will I shew the salvation of God.
