---
number: 51
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin <em>is</em> ever before me.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done <em>this</em> evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, <em>and</em> be clear when thou judgest.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden <em>part</em> thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Make me to hear joy and gladness; <em>that</em> the bones <em>which</em> thou hast broken may rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me <em>with thy</em> free spirit.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> <em>Then</em> will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: <em>and</em> my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give <em>it</em>: thou delightest not in burnt offering.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The sacrifices of God <em>are</em> a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.
