---
number: 55
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! <em>for then</em> would I fly away, and be at rest.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Lo, <em>then</em> would I wander far off, <em>and</em> remain in the wilderness. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I would hasten my escape from the windy storm <em>and</em> tempest.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Destroy, O Lord, <em>and</em> divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow <em>are</em> in the midst of it.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Wickedness <em>is</em> in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For <em>it was</em> not an enemy <em>that</em> reproached me; then I could have borne <em>it</em>: neither <em>was it</em> he that hated me <em>that</em> did magnify <em>himself</em> against me; then I would have hid myself from him:

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But <em>it was</em> thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> We took sweet counsel together, <em>and</em> walked unto the house of God in company.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let death seize upon them, <em>and</em> let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness <em>is</em> in their dwellings, <em>and</em> among them.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle <em>that was</em> against me: for there were many with me.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> <em>The words</em> of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war <em>was</em> in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet <em>were</em> they drawn swords.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.
