---
number: 59
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not <em>for</em> my transgression, nor <em>for</em> my sin, O LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They run and prepare themselves without <em>my</em> fault: awake to help me, and behold.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords <em>are</em> in their lips: for who, <em>say they</em>, doth hear?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> <em>Because of</em> his strength will I wait upon thee: for God <em>is</em> my defence.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see <em>my desire</em> upon mine enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> <em>For</em> the sin of their mouth <em>and</em> the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying <em>which</em> they speak.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Consume <em>them</em> in wrath, consume <em>them</em>, that they <em>may</em> not <em>be</em>: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> And at evening let them return; <em>and</em> let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God <em>is</em> my defence, <em>and</em> the God of my mercy.
