---
number: 65
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Iniquities prevail against me: <em>as for</em> our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Blessed <em>is the man whom</em> thou choosest, and causest to approach <em>unto thee, that</em> he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, <em>even</em> of thy holy temple.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> <em>By</em> terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; <em>who art</em> the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off <em>upon</em> the sea:

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; <em>being</em> girded with power:

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, <em>which</em> is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They drop <em>upon</em> the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.
