---
number: 66
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Say unto God, How terrible <em>art thou in</em> thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing <em>to</em> thy name. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Come and see the works of God: <em>he is</em> terrible <em>in his</em> doing toward the children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He turned the sea into dry <em>land</em>: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy <em>place</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows,

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Come <em>and</em> hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear <em>me</em>:

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> <em>But</em> verily God hath heard <em>me</em>; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.
