---
number: 68
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> As smoke is driven away, <em>so</em> drive <em>them</em> away: as wax melteth before the fire, <em>so</em> let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, <em>is</em> God in his holy habitation.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry <em>land</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: <em>even</em> Sinai itself <em>was moved</em> at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The Lord gave the word: great <em>was</em> the company of those that published <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Though ye have lien among the pots, <em>yet shall ye be as</em> the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was <em>white</em> as snow in Salmon.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The hill of God <em>is as</em> the hill of Bashan; an high hill <em>as</em> the hill of Bashan.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Why leap ye, ye high hills? <em>this is</em> the hill <em>which</em> God desireth to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell <em>in it</em> for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The chariots of God <em>are</em> twenty thousand, <em>even</em> thousands of angels: the Lord <em>is</em> among them, <em>as in</em> Sinai, in the holy <em>place</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, <em>for</em> the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell <em>among them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> the Lord, <em>who</em> daily loadeth us <em>with benefits, even</em> the God of our salvation. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> <em>He that is</em> our God <em>is</em> the God of salvation; and unto GOD the Lord <em>belong</em> the issues from death.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> But God shall wound the head of his enemies, <em>and</em> the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring <em>my people</em> again from the depths of the sea:

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of <em>thine</em> enemies, <em>and</em> the tongue of thy dogs in the same.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> They have seen thy goings, O God; <em>even</em> the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> The singers went before, the players on instruments <em>followed</em> after; among <em>them were</em> the damsels playing with timbrels.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> Bless ye God in the congregations, <em>even</em> the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> There <em>is</em> little Benjamin <em>with</em> their ruler, the princes of Judah <em>and</em> their council, the princes of Zebulun, <em>and</em> the princes of Naphtali.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, <em>till every one</em> submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people <em>that</em> delight in war.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah:

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, <em>which were</em> of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, <em>and that</em> a mighty voice.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency <em>is</em> over Israel, and his strength <em>is</em> in the clouds.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> O God, <em>thou art</em> terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel <em>is</em> he that giveth strength and power unto <em>his</em> people. Blessed <em>be</em> God.
