---
number: 69
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto <em>my</em> soul.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I sink in deep mire, where <em>there is</em> no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, <em>being</em> mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored <em>that</em> which I took not away.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> When I wept, <em>and chastened</em> my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I <em>was</em> the song of the drunkards.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But as for me, my prayer <em>is</em> unto thee, O LORD, <em>in</em> an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness <em>is</em> good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Draw nigh unto my soul, <em>and</em> redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries <em>are</em> all before thee.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked <em>for some</em> to take pity, but <em>there was</em> none; and for comforters, but I found none.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Let their table become a snare before them: and <em>that which should have been</em> for <em>their</em> welfare, <em>let it become</em> a trap.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Let their habitation be desolate; <em>and</em> let none dwell in their tents.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> For they persecute <em>him</em> whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> But I <em>am</em> poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> <em>This</em> also shall please the LORD better than an ox <em>or</em> bullock that hath horns and hoofs.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> The humble shall see <em>this, and</em> be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.
