---
number: 7
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending <em>it</em> in pieces, while <em>there is</em> none to deliver.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> O LORD my God, if I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take <em>it</em>; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me <em>to</em> the judgment <em>that</em> thou hast commanded.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity <em>that is</em> in me.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> My defence <em>is</em> of God, which saveth the upright in heart.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry <em>with the wicked</em> every day.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch <em>which</em> he made.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.
