---
number: 71
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou <em>art</em> my rock and my fortress.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For thou <em>art</em> my hope, O Lord GOD: <em>thou art</em> my trust from my youth.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise <em>shall be</em> continually of thee.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> I am as a wonder unto many; but thou <em>art</em> my strong refuge.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Let my mouth be filled <em>with</em> thy praise <em>and with</em> thy honour all the day.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for <em>there is</em> none to deliver <em>him</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Let them be confounded <em>and</em> consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered <em>with</em> reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness <em>and</em> thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers <em>thereof</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, <em>even</em> of thine only.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Now also when I am old and grayheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto <em>this</em> generation, <em>and</em> thy power to every one <em>that</em> is to come.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Thy righteousness also, O God, <em>is</em> very high, who hast done great things: O God, who <em>is</em> like unto thee!

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> <em>Thou</em>, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> I will also praise thee with the psaltery, <em>even</em> thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.
