---
number: 72
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers <em>that</em> water the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and <em>him</em> that hath no helper.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; <em>and</em> daily shall he be praised.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and <em>they</em> of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and <em>men</em> shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> And blessed <em>be</em> his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled <em>with</em> his glory; Amen, and Amen.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.
