---
number: 73
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Truly God <em>is</em> good to Israel, <em>even</em> to such as are of a clean heart.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For I was envious at the foolish, <em>when</em> I saw the prosperity of the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For <em>there are</em> no bands in their death: but their strength <em>is</em> firm.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They <em>are</em> not in trouble <em>as other</em> men; neither are they plagued like <em>other</em> men.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them <em>as</em> a garment.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They are corrupt, and speak wickedly <em>concerning</em> oppression: they speak loftily.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full <em>cup</em> are wrung out to them.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Behold, these <em>are</em> the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase <em>in</em> riches.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Verily I have cleansed my heart <em>in</em> vain, and washed my hands in innocency.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend <em>against</em> the generation of thy children.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> When I thought to know this, it <em>was</em> too painful for me;

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Until I went into the sanctuary of God; <em>then</em> understood I their end.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> How are they <em>brought</em> into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> As a dream when <em>one</em> awaketh; <em>so</em>, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> So foolish <em>was</em> I, and ignorant: I was <em>as</em> a beast before thee.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Nevertheless I <em>am</em> continually with thee: thou hast holden <em>me</em> by my right hand.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me <em>to</em> glory.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Whom have I in heaven <em>but thee</em>? and <em>there is</em> none upon earth <em>that</em> I desire beside thee.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> My flesh and my heart faileth: <em>but</em> God <em>is</em> the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> But <em>it is</em> good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.
