---
number: 74
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O God, why hast thou cast <em>us</em> off for ever? <em>why</em> doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Remember thy congregation, <em>which</em> thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, <em>which</em> thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; <em>even</em> all <em>that</em> the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns <em>for</em> signs.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> <em>A man</em> was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled <em>by casting down</em> the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> We see not our signs: <em>there is</em> no more any prophet: neither <em>is there</em> among us any that knoweth how long.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck <em>it</em> out of thy bosom.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> For God <em>is</em> my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, <em>and</em> gavest him <em>to be</em> meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The day <em>is</em> thine, the night also <em>is</em> thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Remember this, <em>that</em> the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and <em>that</em> the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude <em>of the wicked</em>: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.
