---
number: 77
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I cried unto God with my voice, <em>even</em> unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth <em>his</em> promise fail for evermore?

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> And I said, This <em>is</em> my infirmity: <em>but I will remember</em> the years of the right hand of the most High.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember thy wonders of old.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thy way, O God, <em>is</em> in the sanctuary: who <em>is so</em> great a God as <em>our</em> God?

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Thou <em>art</em> the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Thou hast with <em>thine</em> arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> The voice of thy thunder <em>was</em> in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Thy way <em>is</em> in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
