---
number: 78
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give ear, O my people, <em>to</em> my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> We will not hide <em>them</em> from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> That the generation to come might know <em>them, even</em> the children <em>which</em> should be born; <em>who</em> should arise and declare <em>them</em> to their children:

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation <em>that</em> set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The children of Ephraim, <em>being</em> armed, <em>and</em> carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, <em>in</em> the field of Zoan.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave <em>them</em> drink as <em>out of</em> the great depths.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> Therefore the LORD heard <em>this</em>, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> And he let <em>it</em> fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat <em>was</em> yet in their mouths,

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen <em>men</em> of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> And they remembered that God <em>was</em> their rock, and the high God their redeemer.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> But he, <em>being</em> full of compassion, forgave <em>their</em> iniquity, and destroyed <em>them</em> not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> For he remembered that they <em>were but</em> flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, <em>and</em> grieve him in the desert!

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> They remembered not his hand, <em>nor</em> the day when he delivered them from the enemy.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan:

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust.

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels <em>among them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;

<sup class="verse-num">51</sup> And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of <em>their</em> strength in the tabernacles of Ham:

<sup class="verse-num">52</sup> But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.

<sup class="verse-num">53</sup> And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.

<sup class="verse-num">54</sup> And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, <em>even to</em> this mountain, <em>which</em> his right hand had purchased.

<sup class="verse-num">55</sup> He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.

<sup class="verse-num">56</sup> Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:

<sup class="verse-num">57</sup> But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.

<sup class="verse-num">58</sup> For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.

<sup class="verse-num">59</sup> When God heard <em>this</em>, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:

<sup class="verse-num">60</sup> So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent <em>which</em> he placed among men;

<sup class="verse-num">61</sup> And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand.

<sup class="verse-num">62</sup> He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">63</sup> The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.

<sup class="verse-num">64</sup> Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.

<sup class="verse-num">65</sup> Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, <em>and</em> like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.

<sup class="verse-num">66</sup> And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.

<sup class="verse-num">67</sup> Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:

<sup class="verse-num">68</sup> But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.

<sup class="verse-num">69</sup> And he built his sanctuary like high <em>palaces</em>, like the earth which he hath established for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">70</sup> He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:

<sup class="verse-num">71</sup> From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">72</sup> So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.
