---
number: 79
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> The dead bodies of thy servants have they given <em>to be</em> meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and <em>there was</em> none to bury <em>them</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire?

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where <em>is</em> their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight <em>by</em> the revenging of the blood of thy servants <em>which is</em> shed.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die;

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.
