---
number: 80
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest <em>between</em> the cherubims, shine forth.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come <em>and</em> save us.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou preparedst <em>room</em> before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof <em>were like</em> the goodly cedars.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Why hast thou <em>then</em> broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch <em>that</em> thou madest strong for thyself.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> <em>It is</em> burned with fire, <em>it is</em> cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man <em>whom</em> thou madest strong for thyself.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.
