---
number: 83
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from <em>being</em> a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee:

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Do unto them as <em>unto</em> the Midianites; as <em>to</em> Sisera, as <em>to</em> Jabin, at the brook of Kison:

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> <em>Which</em> perished at En-dor: they became <em>as</em> dung for the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire;

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish:

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> That <em>men</em> may know that thou, whose name alone <em>is</em> JEHOVAH, <em>art</em> the most high over all the earth.
