---
number: 86
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Bow down thine ear, O LORD, hear me: for I <em>am</em> poor and needy.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Preserve my soul; for I <em>am</em> holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> For thou, Lord, <em>art</em> good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Among the gods <em>there is</em> none like unto thee, O Lord; neither <em>are there any works</em> like unto thy works.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> For thou <em>art</em> great, and doest wondrous things: thou <em>art</em> God alone.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> For great <em>is</em> thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent <em>men</em> have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But thou, O Lord, <em>art</em> a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see <em>it</em>, and be ashamed: because thou, LORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.
