---
number: 88
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O LORD God of my salvation, I have cried day <em>and</em> night before thee:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man <em>that hath</em> no strength:

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted <em>me</em> with all thy waves. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: <em>I am</em> shut up, and I cannot come forth.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise <em>and</em> praise thee? Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? <em>or</em> thy faithfulness in destruction?

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> LORD, why castest thou off my soul? <em>why</em> hidest thou thy face from me?

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> I <em>am</em> afflicted and ready to die from <em>my</em> youth up: <em>while</em> I suffer thy terrors I am distracted.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, <em>and</em> mine acquaintance into darkness.
