---
number: 89
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? <em>who</em> among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD?

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all <em>them that are</em> about him.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> O LORD God of hosts, who <em>is</em> a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee?

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The heavens <em>are</em> thine, the earth also <em>is</em> thine: <em>as for</em> the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, <em>and</em> high is thy right hand.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Justice and judgment <em>are</em> the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Blessed <em>is</em> the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> For thou <em>art</em> the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For the LORD <em>is</em> our defence; and the Holy One of Israel <em>is</em> our king.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon <em>one that is</em> mighty; I have exalted <em>one</em> chosen out of the people.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.

<sup class="verse-num">24</sup> But my faithfulness and my mercy <em>shall be</em> with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.

<sup class="verse-num">25</sup> I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.

<sup class="verse-num">26</sup> He shall cry unto me, Thou <em>art</em> my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">27</sup> Also I will make him <em>my</em> firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.

<sup class="verse-num">28</sup> My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.

<sup class="verse-num">29</sup> His seed also will I make <em>to endure</em> for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.

<sup class="verse-num">30</sup> If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;

<sup class="verse-num">31</sup> If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;

<sup class="verse-num">32</sup> Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.

<sup class="verse-num">33</sup> Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.

<sup class="verse-num">34</sup> My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.

<sup class="verse-num">35</sup> Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.

<sup class="verse-num">36</sup> His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.

<sup class="verse-num">37</sup> It shall be established for ever as the moon, and <em>as</em> a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">38</sup> But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">39</sup> Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown <em>by casting it</em> to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">40</sup> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin.

<sup class="verse-num">41</sup> All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.

<sup class="verse-num">42</sup> Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.

<sup class="verse-num">43</sup> Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.

<sup class="verse-num">44</sup> Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.

<sup class="verse-num">45</sup> The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">46</sup> How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire?

<sup class="verse-num">47</sup> Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain?

<sup class="verse-num">48</sup> What man <em>is he that</em> liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">49</sup> Lord, where <em>are</em> thy former lovingkindnesses, <em>which</em> thou swarest unto David in thy truth?

<sup class="verse-num">50</sup> Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; <em>how</em> I do bear in my bosom <em>the reproach of</em> all the mighty people;

<sup class="verse-num">51</sup> Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.

<sup class="verse-num">52</sup> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.
