---
number: 9
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> I will praise <em>thee</em>, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble <em>which I suffer</em> of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> The heathen are sunk down in the pit <em>that</em> they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> The LORD is known <em>by</em> the judgment <em>which</em> he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> The wicked shall be turned into hell, <em>and</em> all the nations that forget God.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall <em>not</em> perish for ever.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Put them in fear, O LORD: <em>that</em> the nations may know themselves <em>to be but</em> men. Selah.
