---
number: 90
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou <em>art</em> God.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For a thousand years in thy sight <em>are but</em> as yesterday when it is past, and <em>as</em> a watch in the night.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are <em>as</em> a sleep: in the morning <em>they are</em> like grass <em>which</em> groweth up.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret <em>sins</em> in the light of thy countenance.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale <em>that is told</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> The days of our years <em>are</em> threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength <em>they be</em> fourscore years, yet <em>is</em> their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, <em>so is</em> thy wrath.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> So teach <em>us</em> to number our days, that we may apply <em>our</em> hearts unto wisdom.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> Make us glad according to the days <em>wherein</em> thou hast afflicted us, <em>and</em> the years <em>wherein</em> we have seen evil.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children.

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.
