---
number: 91
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> I will say of the LORD, <em>He is</em> my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, <em>and</em> from the noisome pestilence.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth <em>shall be thy</em> shield and buckler.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; <em>nor</em> for the arrow <em>that</em> flieth by day;

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> <em>Nor</em> for the pestilence <em>that</em> walketh in darkness; <em>nor</em> for the destruction <em>that</em> wasteth at noonday.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; <em>but</em> it shall not come nigh thee.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> Because thou hast made the LORD, <em>which is</em> my refuge, <em>even</em> the most High, thy habitation;

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> They shall bear thee up in <em>their</em> hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I <em>will be</em> with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.
