---
number: 92
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> <em>It is a</em> good <em>thing</em> to give thanks unto the LORD, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High:

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound.

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands.

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> O LORD, how great are thy works! <em>and</em> thy thoughts are very deep.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; <em>it is</em> that they shall be destroyed for ever:

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> But thou, LORD, <em>art most</em> high for evermore.

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> But my horn shalt thou exalt like <em>the horn of</em> an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> Mine eye also shall see <em>my desire</em> on mine enemies, <em>and</em> mine ears shall hear <em>my desire</em> of the wicked that rise up against me.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> To shew that the LORD <em>is</em> upright: <em>he is</em> my rock, and <em>there is</em> no unrighteousness in him.
