---
number: 94
title: ~
testament: "OT"
---

<sup class="verse-num">1</sup> O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.

<sup class="verse-num">2</sup> Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.

<sup class="verse-num">3</sup> LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?

<sup class="verse-num">4</sup> <em>How long</em> shall they utter <em>and</em> speak hard things? <em>and</em> all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?

<sup class="verse-num">5</sup> They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage.

<sup class="verse-num">6</sup> They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.

<sup class="verse-num">7</sup> Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard <em>it</em>.

<sup class="verse-num">8</sup> Understand, ye brutish among the people: and <em>ye</em> fools, when will ye be wise?

<sup class="verse-num">9</sup> He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?

<sup class="verse-num">10</sup> He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, <em>shall not he know</em>?

<sup class="verse-num">11</sup> The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they <em>are</em> vanity.

<sup class="verse-num">12</sup> Blessed <em>is</em> the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law;

<sup class="verse-num">13</sup> That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.

<sup class="verse-num">14</sup> For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.

<sup class="verse-num">15</sup> But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.

<sup class="verse-num">16</sup> Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? <em>or</em> who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?

<sup class="verse-num">17</sup> Unless the LORD <em>had been</em> my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.

<sup class="verse-num">18</sup> When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.

<sup class="verse-num">19</sup> In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul.

<sup class="verse-num">20</sup> Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law?

<sup class="verse-num">21</sup> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.

<sup class="verse-num">22</sup> But the LORD is my defence; and my God <em>is</em> the rock of my refuge.

<sup class="verse-num">23</sup> And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; <em>yea</em>, the LORD our God shall cut them off.
